=== PAGE 1 ===
Temporary policy regulations 
During COVID-19 period 
This document is the compilation of the temporary policies applied during Covid-19 pandemic and 
does not include regular policy changes applied during that period. 
Regular policies were restored as of Fall 2021 or Spring 2022 semester. The effective semesters are 
included within each policy below. 
• Grade mode policy 
Pass/fail grading mode was applied to all undergraduate and graduate level courses in Spring 2020 
semester. 
 
The only exception was the courses offered as part of EAPP program. They followed the standard 
grading mode. 
 
• Minimum passing grade policy 
Minimum passing grade requirement for all undergraduate level major core courses taken in Spring 
2020, Summer 2020, Fall 2020, Spring 2021 was defined as “D”. Minimum passing grade for all 
graduate level courses was defined as “C-”. A grade of Pass (P) in pass/fail courses was equivalent of 
“D” and “C-” in undergraduate and graduate courses respectively. 
Regular policy: 
Pre-pandemic (until Spring 2020): “C-” grade on conventional grading scale is required for major core and 
Writing and Information Literacy courses in undergraduate level. “C” grade on conventional grading scale is 
required for all courses in graduate level. 
Post-pandemic (as of Fall 2021): “D” grade on conventional grading scale is required for all UG level courses 
except Writing and Information Literacy as of Fall 2021. “C” grade on conventional grading scale is required for 
all courses in graduate level. 
• Repeat policy 
The following repeat rules are applied for the repeat of the courses taken in Spring 2020. 
a. The repeat course grade is “C-” or below in another semester. 
1. If Spring 2020 semester grade is P (pass), then the other grade is excluded in the repeat 
process and P (pass) grade is included. 
2. If Spring 2020 semester grade is FZ (fail), then the other grade is included in the repeat 
process and FZ (fail) grade is excluded. 
b. If the other course grade is “C” or above, then students are given an option to either include or 
exclude that grade in repeat process. 
 
Regular policy: the highest grade and the credit associated with that grade will count toward the major GPA 
requirements.
=== PAGE 2 ===
• Academic continuance regulations 
Academic standing rules were put on hold in Spring 2020, Summer 2020, Fall 2020, Spring 2021, 
Summer 2021, Fall 2021 semesters. Students’ academic standings in effect at the end of Fall 2019 
were frozen unless the student’s cumulative GPA reached 2.00 in undergraduate and 2.75 in graduate 
level. 
Academic continuance regulations were restored as of Spring 2022 semester. 
Regular policy: 
Undergraduate regulation: An undergraduate student is placed on academic probation when the student’s 
cumulative GPA Falls below 2.0 at the end of a Fall or Spring semester, excluding summer term. Students on 
academic probation are expected to improve their cumulative GPAs. A student who achieves a cumulative GPA 
of at least 2.0 is removed from academic probation and placed in good academic standing. A failure to do so for 
3 consecutive semesters results in academic dismissal. 
Graduate regulation: A graduate student is placed on academic probation when the student’s cumulative GPA 
falls below 2.75 at the end of a Fall or Spring semester. Students on academic probation are expected to improve 
their cumulative GPAs. A student who achieves a cumulative GPA of at least 2.75 is removed from academic 
probation and placed in good academic standing. A failure to do so results in academic dismissal. 
 
• Exams 
All midterm and final exams were held online in Spring 2020, Summer 2020 and Fall 2020 semesters. 
As of Spring 2021 midterm exams were conducted either online or on-campus depending on the 
course and the pandemic measurements in the country. Final exams were mostly conducted on-
campus. Only international students who were then located abroad were allowed to choose to take 
midterm and final exams online. 
 
• Credit transfer 
Courses taken at an exchange university and passed with “D” grade after the conversion to ADA 
University grading system were transferred. 
Regular policy: Credit articulation and transfer process procedures are done according to the Credit Transfer 
Manual document effective for the relevant academic year. 
• Tuition fee 
15% tuition fee waiver was applied in Spring 2020, Fall 2020 and Spring 2021 semesters.