

===== PAGE 1 =====
Doc No: QA-QAA-09 
Version: 02.00 
Date Effective: 01 Nov 2024 
 
STATEMENT OF CORE COMPETENCIES 

1. Purpose 
 
The curriculum at ADA University is based on a set of core competencies that ensure it serves the 
University’s mission and strategic goals. Specifically, they guide teaching and learning at ADA Uni-
versity and are designed to equip students with the qualifications needed for academic, professional 
and personal success. The purpose of this statement is to specify and define these competencies 
and to provide a coherent and systematic framework for Schools and programs as well as a clear 
and transparent point of reference for teachers, (current and prospective) students, and the general 
public. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This statement applies to the entire curriculum at ADA University. It provides a framework for School 
missions as well as for teaching, learning and assessment at both the program and course level. 
 
Core competencies serve as guiding principles for the development, implementation and review of 
all programs at ADA University. Schools and their faculty are responsible to ensure that these com-
petencies are systematically reflected on the level of programs. They will do so by defining program 
learning outcomes, which are informed by and align with the core competencies outlined in this 
document. For details, see the University’s Core Competence and Learning Outcome Specification 
Policy. 

3. Definition 
 
In accordance with the European Reference Framework of 2007, Competence is defined as “a com-
bination of knowledge, skills and attitudes”. Core Competencies are general statements of qualities 
that a student is expected to demonstrate upon graduation, and this regardless of a specific degree 
program. 

4. The University’s Core Competencies 
 
4.1 Education at ADA University is based on the following core competencies: 
a. Competence 1: Information and Digital Literacy 
b. Competence 2: Critical Thinking 
c. Competence 3: Problem Solving and Creativity 
d. Competence 4: Communication 
e. Competence 5: Collaboration and Leadership 
f. Competence 6: Ethical Awareness and Civic Engagement 
g. Competence 7: Global Awareness 
4.2 Competence 1: Information and Digital Literacy describes the ability to acquire and organize 
new and relevant information. It involves identifying appropriate resources and effectively using 
digital technologies. This competence furthermore involves employing digital technologies pro-
ductively and in a deliberate, safe and ethical manner for purposes such as communication, 
collaboration, or the creation of new content.


===== PAGE 2 =====
2 | P a g e 
4.3 Competence 2: Critical Thinking describes the ability to independently evaluate information and 
draw objective conclusions based on well-founded arguments and/or criteria. It involves inquir-
ing into the accuracy and relevance of information, making reasoned judgements, and reflecting 
on one’s own views and assumptions. 
4.4 Competence 3: Problem Solving and Creativity describe the ability to identify, describe and 
analyze problems, develop appropriate and innovative solutions, and adapt them to changing 
conditions. This includes using prior experience and knowledge, exploring alternative ways, 
being flexible and open to new ideas, and considering the consequences of different solutions. 
4.5 Competence 4: Communication describes the ability to engage effectively in formal and infor-
mal exchanges with others by oral, written and non-verbal means. It involves listening actively 
to others, considering one’s own behavior, adapting one’s communication style, and exchang-
ing information in a respectful and socially acceptable manner. 
4.6 Competence 5: Collaboration and Leadership describes the ability to constructively cooperate 
with others to achieve a common goal. This involves creating positive relationships, respecting 
and reconciling different opinions, appreciating the contribution of team members, and sharing 
responsibilities. Effective leadership builds on these collaborative abilities, and it involves taking 
the initiative, motivating others, modeling behavior, setting ethical standards, and assuming 
responsibility for individual and collective goals and outcomes. 
4.7 Competence 6: Ethical Awareness and Civic Engagement describes the ability to reflect on 
moral values and issues and identify matters of public concern. This includes identifying and 
assessing ethical issues, forming sound moral arguments, and making choices while consider-
ing their implications for others and the community. It also involves acting in the public interest 
and developing and implementing solutions to matters of public concern, either individually or 
collaboratively. 
4.8 Competence 7: Global Awareness describes the ability to interpret and assess issues in a 
global context, understand and respect diverse cultures and perspectives, and engage effec-
tively with individuals from different backgrounds. This involves recognizing the interconnect-
edness of the world, considering the global implications of actions and events, appreciating 
cultural diversity, as well as the capability to communicate and collaborate across national and 
cultural boundaries.
