

===== PAGE 1 =====
Doc No: QA-QAA-11 
Version: 02.00 
Date Effective: 29 May 2025 
 
FOUNDATION PROGRAM REGULATIONS 

1. Purpose 
 
ADA University aims to ensure that students become highly resourceful and versatile individuals 
who are well-equipped to navigate the challenges of our complex and globalized modern world. This 
necessitates that they acquire qualifications that go beyond their main fields of specialization. When 
starting their university career, students are thus required to complete a Foundation Program that is 
an integral part of undergraduate degree programs. The purpose of this document is to outline ADA 
University’s Foundation Program regulations. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
The regulations outlined in this document apply to the University’s undergraduate degree programs. 
They should be read alongside ADA University’s Undergraduate Degree Regulations and its Curric-
ulum Structure and Regulations. 
 
Teachers, undergraduate students, and all those involved in the development or modification of un-
dergraduate degree programs are expected to be thoroughly familiar with the regulations set forth 
in this document. 

3. Definition 
 
The Foundation Program encompasses courses offered to students enrolled in undergraduate de-
gree programs at ADA University. The purposes of the Foundation Program component are (1) to 
equip students with a solid foundation in areas that are essential to their future academic and pro-
fessional careers; (2) to cultivate their awareness of Azerbaijan’s rich historical and cultural tradition; 
and (3) to provide them with a broad perspective on contemporary global issues. 

4. Foundation Program Regulations 
 
4.1 General Provisions 
a. The Foundation Program must be coherently structured and offer a combination of courses 
suited to broadly expand the knowledge, skills and attitudes of students in areas essential 
to their personal, academic and professional development in today’s transcultural and glob-
alized world. 
b. With the exception of the Bachelor of Laws program, the Foundation Program requirements 
outlined in this document ought to be substantially incorporated into all undergraduate de-
gree programs. Depending on the nature of the degree, programs may adapt these require-
ments. Any adjustments need to be specified in the respective program’s description and its 
structure of courses. 
c. It is the responsibility of the Curriculum Committee(s) and the Dean(s) and Associate 
Dean(s) of the School(s) involved in the delivery of a degree program to ensure that the 
respective program substantially covers the courses and credit requirements mentioned be-
low in 4.2. 
d. The development and modification of the Foundation Program and of its curriculum and 
courses is the responsibility of faculty. It may be delegated to the Curriculum Committee of 
the Foundation Program.


===== PAGE 2 =====
2 | P a g e 
e. Detailed procedures for the development, modification and approval of programs, curricula 
and courses are outlined in the University’s Degree Program Development and Modification 
Policy and in its Curriculum and Course Development Policy. 
f. Detailed information on the Foundation Program and its individual courses must be included 
in the program’s description and in the descriptions of its courses, using the Program De-
scription Form and the Course Syllabus Form (which can be found in Appendix II of ADA 
University’s Academic Quality Assurance Standards and Guidelines). Requirements for the 
development of program descriptions and course syllabi are outlined in the University’s Cur-
riculum and Course Development Policy. 
g. It is the responsibility of the Director of the Foundation Program to coordinate and monitor 
the implementation of the program. 
 
4.2 Program Structure and Requirements 
a. The Foundation Program component usually consists of 10 courses and 60 credits. Each 
course of the Foundation Program awards 6 credits. 
b. The Foundation Program component of undergraduate degree programs is usually divided 
into 8 University Core Courses and 2 School Core Courses. 
c. The following list provides an overview of the University Core Courses. Of these, students 
need to successfully complete the first six courses (which are taught in English) and two of 
the last four courses (all of which are taught in Azerbaijani; students may freely choose two 
of these four courses, which are offered each semester). 
(1) Pre-Calculus 
(2) Data and Computing Skills 
(3) Writing and Information Literary I 
(4) Writing and Information Literary II 
(5) Public Speaking and Persuasion 
(6) Global Perspectives 
(7) History of Azerbaijan 
(8) Literature of Azerbaijan 
(9) Azerbaijani Culture 
(10) Azerbaijani Music Appreciation 
d. As part of the Foundation Program, and with the exception of the School of Law and the 
School of Education, each School of ADA University offers 2 School Core Courses to the 
students enrolled in any of its undergraduate degree programs. The following list provides 
an overview of these courses: 
(1) School of Public and International Affairs: State and Politics, Fundamentals of Sociol-
ogy 
(2) School of Business: Principles of Economics I, Calculus I 
(3) School of IT and Engineering: Fundamentals of Information Systems, Calculus I or Fun-
damentals of Physics (the latter course only for Bachelor of Science in Electrical and 
Electronics Engineering) 
(4) School of Agricultural and Food Sciences: Introduction to Smart Agricultural Systems, 
Introduction to Sustainable Food Systems 
(5) School of Design and Architecture: History of Art, Technical Drawing 
e. Students are expected to complete the Foundation Program component during the first year 
of studying their respective degree program. 
f. The minimum passing grade for all Foundation Program courses is D, except for the courses 
Writing and Information Literary I and Writing and Information Literary II, in which students 
need to achieve a C- grade or better to pass. 
g. In no case may students substitute Foundation Program courses for Major Core or Major 
Elective courses.
