=== PAGE 1 ===
DEGREE PROGRAM MONITORING AND 
REVIEW POLICY 

1. Purpose 
 
ADA University aims to ensure the relevance, quality and continuous improvement of its academic 
offerings. This requires in particular that degree programs are monitored and reviewed on a regular 
basis and that they continue to be aligned with the University’s mission and strategic goals, with 
relevant national and international points of reference, and with the evolving needs of students, the 
society, and the labor market. 
 
The purpose of this policy is to establish procedures and requirements for monitoring and reviewing 
degree programs at ADA University. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This policy applies to all degree programs offered at ADA University at the undergraduate and 
graduate level (including the Foundation Program and the English for Academic and Professional 
Purposes Program). 
 
Procedures and requirements for the assessment and enhancement of academic quality in further 
academic areas are outlined in the University’s general Academic Quality Assurance Policy. 
 
Procedures for the development and approval of improvements that result from the processes of 
program monitoring and review delineated in the current policy and that lead to the modification of 
program specifications are outlined in chapter 5 of the University’s Degree Program Development 
and Modification Policy. 
 
Members of ADA University involved in the processes of monitoring and/or reviewing programs are 
expected to be thoroughly familiar with this policy and to adhere to its procedures and requirements. 
 
Reviewing a program is a multifarious process that involves a number of stakeholders and requires 
the completion of a variety of tasks. Members of the University planning to review a program ought 
to allocate sufficient time for the completion of this task. 

3. Definitions 
 
Program Monitoring describes the ongoing and systematic process of program assessment and of 
identifying opportunities for the improvement of essential components, aspects and outcomes. Its 
objective is to ensure (1) that they continue to be of appropriate quality, (2) that they are effective in 
promoting student success, and (3) that they correspond to relevant institutional and external 
requirements and standards. 
 
Program Review describes the periodic, systematic and comprehensive assessment and 
improvement of a degree program and of all its major components, aspects and outcomes. Its 
objective is to ensure that the program is up-to-date and thus continues (1) to offer education of high 
quality, (2) to align with the University’s mission and strategic goals and with relevant institutional

=== PAGE 2 ===
and external requirements and standards, and (3) to address the needs of students, the labor 
market, and society as a whole. 

4. General Provisions 
 
4.1 It is the responsibility of Deans, Associate Deans and Program Directors to ensure the imple-
mentation of and compliance with this policy and its procedures and requirements. 
4.2 It is the responsibility of the Quality Assurance Committee to review this policy regularly and 
according to the quality review cycle and the requirements defined in chapters 5.1 and 6.3 of 
the University’s Academic Quality Assurance Policy. Most importantly, the Committee must 
ensure the policy’s ongoing relevance and effectiveness. 
4.3 It is the responsibility to Deans, Associate Deans and Program Directors to ensure that all re-
visions and improvements made to a program as a result of program monitoring and review are 
made public on the University’s website and in the Academic Catalogue as outlined in chapter 
5.2.f of the University’s Degree Program Development and Modification Policy. Most im-
portantly, they must ensure that all those involved in the program (students, faculty, and rele-
vant staff) are made aware of the new program specifications. 
4.4 The procedures and requirements for monitoring and reviewing multidisciplinary degree pro-
grams follow those outlined below while including actors and Committees from all involved 
Schools. 
4.5 The procedures and requirements for monitoring and reviewing online and blended degree pro-
grams follow those outlined below. 
4.6 The procedures and requirements for monitoring and reviewing dual degree programs need to 
follow those outlined below as closely as possible while considering the procedures and re-
quirements of the partner institution and including actors and Committees from that institution. 

5. Monitoring of Degree Programs 
 
5.1 Degree Program Assessment 
a. Monitoring of degree programs (including the Foundation Program and the English for 
Academic and Professional Purposes Program) must occur throughout the academic year 
and (depending on the component, aspect or outcome to be assessed) particularly at the 
beginning and/or end of each semester and/or term. 
b. Monitoring of programs is the responsibility of the respective School’s or program’s 
Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committee. Whenever appropriate, the process of 
program assessment may include members from other Schools of ADA University. 
c. The process of program monitoring must (on the level of the program and/or of courses) in 
particular assess student performance; learning outcomes, teaching and learning materials 
and activities as well as assessment methods; course syllabi and content; student 
satisfaction and feedback; faculty workload and performance; the student/faculty ratio; the 
use of Blackboard Learn; and the support provided to students by faculty and other relevant 
members of the University. The evaluation of individual courses must in particular ensure 
that learning outcomes are used to guide teaching and learning and that they are aligned 
with educational activities and assessment methods. Schools and programs are advised 
that only a select number of courses need to be evaluated more closely each academic 
year. 
d. In addition to the above, the responsible Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committee may 
decide to assess any component, aspect or outcome of a program whenever it deems 
necessary. Members of the respective School and/or program as well as further University 
members referred to in chapter 5.1.a of the Degree Program Development and Modification

=== PAGE 3 ===
Policy may make suggestions to the Committee for the assessment of such components, 
aspects or outcomes. 
e. It is the responsibility of the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation to provide Schools 
and programs with relevant information required for program assessment, including (for 
example) data on student performance and retention, faculty workload and performance, 
and the student/faculty ratio. 
 
5.2 Degree Program Improvement 
a. Schools must use the results gained during program assessment for the systematic and 
ongoing improvement of identified weaknesses. 
b. Procedures for the development of improvements leading to the modification of program 
specifications are outlined in chapter 5 of the University’s Degree Program Development 
and Modification Policy. 
c. The School’s or program’s Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committee will regularly 
monitor the implementation of improvements. Relevant Deans, Associate Deans and/or 
Program Directors must ensure that all proposed improvements are implemented 
adequately. 
d. Improvements leading to the modification of program specifications need to be approved 
according to the procedures outlined in chapter 5 of the University’s Degree Program 
Development and Modification Policy. 
 
5.3 Follow-up Procedures 
a. At the end of each academic year, each program will submit a short report to the Office of 
Quality Assurance and Accreditation. This report serves to document the activities 
undertaken by the respective program. It must include major results of program assessment 
as well as how these were, are or will be used to improve (and address weaknesses of) the 
program and/or its individual courses. 
b. A Program Monitoring Report Template can be found in Appendix II of ADA University’s 
Academic Quality Assurance Standards and Guidelines. Schools and progams are free to 
use other formats to summarize and submit their findings. 
c. The Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation will place the reports received on the 
agenda of the Quality Assurance Committee, who will discuss the reports and may make 
suggestions for further improvements of programs and/or individual courses. 
d. The results of the ongoing process of program monitoring need to be reflected in the self-
study report during the review phase of the respective program (for details, see chapter 6.2 
below). 

6. Review of Degree Programs 
 
6.1 Degree Program Assessment 
a. Each degree program (including the Foundation Program and the English for Academic and 
Professional Purposes Program) shall undergo a comprehensive review at least once during 
each of the University’s 5-year quality review cycles, with the current cycle covering the 
academic years 2024/25 to 2029/30. 
b. The review of a program is the responsibility of the Dean, Associate Dean, Program Director 
and faculty of the respective School and/or program. It shall be conducted by an ad hoc 
School- or program-level committee, which will act as the Program Review Committee. The 
Committee will be chaired by the Dean, Associate Dean or Program Director, who will also 
inform the Vice Rector of Academic Affairs about the inititated review of the program. 
c. The Committee, and thus the process of program review, needs to incorporate an external 
perspective, which consists of at least one faculty member from a well-reputed institution of

=== PAGE 4 ===
higher education, at least one representative each from the public and the private sector, 
and at least one graduate of the respective program. Further external and internal actors 
(such as one or more academic staff members from a well-reputed institution of higher 
education, members of relevant state agencies, and/or members from other Schools or 
programs of ADA University) may be included as part of the Committee. The latter must 
additionally and substantially incorporate the perspective of those students currently 
enrolled in the program and ensure that the external reviewers referred to above are 
continuously involved in the process of program review. In the case of dual degree programs, 
the Committee’s external faculty (and potential academic staff) member(s) may come from 
the partner institution. In the case of online and blended degree programs, the Committee 
must include one of ADA University’s Blackboard DTLS Accredited Facilitators. 
d. The process of program review must assess all major components, aspects and outcomes 
of a program. These include (but are not limited to) program objectives and learning 
outcomes; the curriculum structure and course composition; the program’s framework of 
educational and assessment methods; program content; program effectiveness and student 
success (including student retention and graduation and graduate employment); faculty 
qualification and performance; research output and its relevance for teaching; study 
resources and student support; as well as student expectations, needs and satisfaction. 
Detailed requirements for program review are provided in the Self-Study Report Template 
referred to below in 6.2.d. 
e. The process of program review must in particular assess whether the program and its 
individual components and aspects are up-to-date (thus providing high-quality education 
and addressing the needs of students, the labor market and society), whether it aligns with 
the University’s mission and strategic goals, with essential points of reference referred to in 
chapters 4.1.f and 4.3.f of the University’s Degree Program Development and Modification 
Policy, with relevant documents such as those referred to in chapters 4.4.c and 5.1.g of the 
same policy, and whether its outcomes reflect relevant objectives set by the University 
and/or School. It needs to identify shortcomings and make suggestions for the program’s 
improvement. 
f. The process of program review must reflect major results from program monitoring as 
outlined above in 5.3.d, refer to the previous comprehensive program review (if applicable), 
and draw on insights gained from program accreditation (if applicable). 
g. The process of program review must substantiate its findings and analysis with relevant 
documents, information and data. These will help assess various components, aspects and 
outcomes of a program. This process may require gathering input and feedback from 
stakeholders in addition to the information and data provided by the Office of Quality 
Assurance and Accreditation as outlined below in 6.1.h. It must in particular ensure that 
students and faculty can provide input and feedback both individually and collectively. 
h. It is the responsibility of the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation to provide Schools 
and programs with relevant information required for program assessment, including (for 
example) data on student performance, retention and graduation, on graduate employment, 
on faculty performance, on research output, and on student satisfaction. The Office will 
furthermore assume an advisory function to ensure that the process of program review and 
its results correspond to the University’s requirements, to the national and international 
points of reference referred to above in 6.1.e, and to the standards set by relevant 
accrediting agencies. 
 
6.2 The Self-Study Report 
a. The results of program assessment must be presented in a comprehensive self-study report. 
b. The self-study report serves the purpose of outlining a program’s strengths and 
weaknesses, and it includes a detailed plan for its improvement.

=== PAGE 5 ===
c. The self-study report must cover the areas and aspects referred to above in 6.1.d to 6.1.f 
and clearly specify all identified shortcomings. It must in particular reflect and specify the 
input and feedback received from the external and internal reviewers referred to in 6.1.c. 
d. A Self-Study Report Template can be found in Appendix II of ADA University’s Academic 
Quality Assurance Standards and Guidelines. The chapters, indicators and information 
mentioned in this template are minimum requirements. Depending on the specific program 
and the (national and international) points of reference considered during the assessment 
process, further chapters, indicators and information may be added. 
e. After having completed the program’s assessment, the Program Review Committee will 
submit the self-study report to the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation. The latter 
will place the report on the agenda of the Quality Assurance Committee, who will discuss 
the report and may make suggestions for its further improvement. 
f. The Program Review Committee must thoroughly consider the suggestions made by the 
Quality Assurance Committee and develop an updated version of the self-study report. The 
former may reject suggestions made by the latter Committee for good academic reasons. 
g. The Program Review Committee will submit the updated version of the self-study report to 
the Vice Rector of Academic Affairs. The Committee must also provide documentation on 
the entire process of program assessment, including (for example) minutes for all major 
meetings as well as an overview of all actors involved and of issues considered. 
h. The Vice Rector of Academic Affairs will submit the self-study report (together with all the 
documentation mentioned in 6.2.g) to the Committee of Faculty Affairs. At one of its next 
regular meetings, the Committee will discuss and take a vote on the report. Members of the 
Program Review Committee may be invited in order to present their report and address 
potential questions. Approval by the Committee of Faculty Affairs is granted if the proposal 
is accepted by the majority of its members. 
i. In case of the self-study report’s rejection by the Committee of Faculty Affairs, the Program 
Review Committee will resume its work on the report and implement the recommendations 
received. The new version of the report will be re-submitted to the Committee of Faculty 
Affairs as outlined above in 6.2.g and 6.2.h. 
 
6.3 Degree Program Improvement 
a. After approval of the self-study report by the Committee of Faculty Affairs, the improvement 
plan referred to above in 6.2.b (which is part of the report) must be implemented. 
b. The implementation of this plan is the responsibility of the representatives of the School 
and/or program. 
c. Detailed procedures for the development of improvements leading to the modification of 
program specifications are outlined in chapter 5 of the University’s Degree Program 
Development and Modification Policy. 
d. The School’s or program’s Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committee will regularly 
monitor the implementation of the improvement plan. It is the responsibility of relevant 
Deans, Associate Deans and/or Program Directors to ensure that this plan is implemented 
adequately. 
e. Those responsible for monitoring and reviewing the implementation process must in 
particular assess the outcomes of this process to evaluate the effectiveness of the 
improvement activities undertaken. They must furthermore ensure that the ongoing process 
of program monitoring (as outlined in chapter 5 above) is well aligned with the 
implementation of the improvement plan. 
f. The implementation of the improvement plan may require to involve further units of the 
University (such as the Office of Admissions and Student Records or the Student Academic 
Support Services).

=== PAGE 6 ===
g. The Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation will continue its advisory function, and 
Schools and/or programs may consult with the Office at any time during the process of 
improvement plan implemenation. 
h. Improvements leading to the modification of program specifications need to be approved 
according to the procedures outlined in chapter 5 of the University’s Degree Program 
Development and Modification Policy. 
i. The Dean, Associate Dean or Program Director will provide annual updates on the 
implementation of the improvement plan to the Office of Quality Assurance and 
Accreditation. These updates will be included in the report referred to in 5.3. As outlined 
above, the report will be placed on the agenda of the Quality Assurance Committee, who 
will assume oversight of the implementation of the improvement plan. The Committee may 
make recommendations for the enhancement of this plan and/or its implementation.