=== PAGE 1 ===
QUALITY ASSURANCE GOVERNANCE 

1. Purpose 
 
Quality assurance at ADA University is comprehensive and includes several stakeholders. The pur-
pose of this document is to delineate the University’s quality assurance structure and the responsi-
bilities of the actors involved in the process of quality assurance. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
The structures and procedures set forth in this document govern the process of academic quality 
assurance at the institutional and School level at ADA University. 
 
This document should be read in conjunction with ADA University’s Academic Quality Assurance 
Policy. 

3. Definitions 
 
Quality Assurance Governance describes the organizational structure of quality assurance, key ac-
tors involved in the process of quality assurance, as well as their respective responsibilities. 
 
Quality Assurance describes the regular and ongoing assessment (evaluation) and enhancement 
(improvement) of structures, processes and documents designated to achieve and improve quality 
as well as of their practical impact and outcomes. While Quality Assessment refers to the review of 
structures, processes and documents and of their impact and outcomes, the Enhancement of Quality 
covers the development and modification of such structures, processes and documents as well as 
their implementation and the corresponding achievement of the intended impact and outcomes. 

4. General Provisions 
 
4.1 All members of the University are expected to strive for academic quality and the achievement 
of excellence. 
4.2 Primary responsibility for the process of quality assurance at ADA University rests with the 
University’s Quality Assurance Committee, with School-level Curriculum and Quality Assurance 
Committees, and with the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation. 
4.3 Amendments to this document may be proposed by any member of the Quality Assurance 
Committee, by senior management members, by any (academic or administrative) unit, or by 
any decision-making body (such as the University Senate, Deans’ Council or Committee of 
Faculty Affairs), or academic committee (such as a Curriculum and Quality Assurance Commit-
tee) of the University. Proposers are required to seek feedback from the Office of Quality As-
surance and Accreditation before submitting their final proposal to the Quality Assurance Com-
mittee. Amendments need the approval of (1) the Quality Assurance Committee, (2) the Com-
mittee of Faculty Affairs, (3) the Deans’ Council, and (4) the University Senate in order to be-
come effective. If accepted by the Senate and approved by the Rector, the amended document 
comes into effect at the date determined by the Senate.

=== PAGE 2 ===
5. Organizational Structure 
 
5.1 Quality Assurance Committee 
a. ADA University shall have a Quality Assurance Committee. This Committee shall consist of 
the following 18 members, which ensures a wide representation of various and relevant 
stakeholders: 
(1) Vice Rector of Academic Affairs; 
(2) Vice Rector of Strategy and Advancement; 
(3) Vice Rector for Enrollment Management and Student Affairs; 
(4) Vice Rector for Government and External Affairs; 
(5) Director of Quality Assurance and Accreditation; 
(6) 1 faculty member from each of the University’s Schools and from the Foundation Pro-
gram and the English for Academic and Professional Purposes Program; 
(7) 2 external members from well-reputed institutions of higher education; 
(8) 1 undergraduate student representative and 1 graduate student representative. 
b. The 5 members mentioned above in (1) to (5) shall be permanent members of the Quality 
Assurance Committee as long as they hold their respective administrative positions. 
c. The 9 members mentioned above in (6) shall be elected by the faculty of their respective 
Schools or programs for the duration of two academic years. They may be reelected twice. 
d. The 2 members mentioned above in (7) shall be appointed by the Vice Rector of Academic 
Affairs after consultation with the Quality Assurance Committee and with the selected can-
didates. They may come from the same or from different institutions of higher education and 
shall be appointed for the duration of two academic years. They may be reappointed twice. 
e. The 2 members mentioned above in (8) shall be elected by the ADA Student Government 
for the duration of one academic year. The ADA Student Government will elect 2 of its mem-
bers prior to or at the beginning of each academic year. Undergraduate students are only 
eligible if they are at least in their third or fourth year of study at ADA University. Graduate 
students are only eligible if they have studied for at least one academic year at ADA Univer-
sity (either at the undergraduate or the graduate level). Both the undergraduate and the 
graduate student representative may be elected for a maximum of 2 academic years. Stu-
dents convicted of any violation of ADA University’s Honor Code and/or the Student Code 
of Conduct at any stage of their study career may not become or remain a member of the 
Quality Assurance Committee. 
f. In case a member of the Quality Assurance Committee should withdraw from the Commit-
tee, or if a member should no longer be eligible for membership, he/she will be replaced in 
accordance with the regulations delineated in 5.1.b to 5.1.e. 
g. The Quality Assurance Committee is chaired by the Vice Rector of Academic Affairs. In the 
absence of the Vice Rector, meetings are chaired by one of the Committee members men-
tioned above in (2) to (5). 
h. Whenever appropriate, the Quality Assurance Committee may invite further members of 
ADA University to participate in its meetings and to offer input, feedback and suggestions 
on specific issues under discussion. 
 
5.2 Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committees 
a. Each School of ADA University (and including the Foundation Program and the English for 
Academic and Professional Purposes Program) shall have at least one Curriculum and 
Quality Assurance Committee. Schools may decide to have more than one such Committee 
to cover different degree programs. 
b. Each Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committee shall consist of at least 4 faculty mem-
bers of the respective School. 
c. Schools are recommended to include students in their Curriculum and Quality Assurance 
Committee(s). The latter may also involve external members.

=== PAGE 3 ===
d. The procedures for the selection of Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committee members 
shall be specified by each School. The latter are expected to ensure that the composition of 
these Committees is assessed at regular and reasonable intervals. 
e. The School’s representative on the Quality Assurance Committee shall be part of its Curric-
ulum and Quality Assurance Committee (or of one of these Committees). 
f. If not otherwise stipulated by a School, meetings of the respective Curriculum and Quality 
Assurance Committee will be chaired by the School’s representative on the Quality Assur-
ance Committee. 
g. Whenever appropriate, Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committees may invite further 
members of ADA University to participate in their meetings and to offer input, feedback and 
suggestions on specific issues under discussion. 
 
5.3 Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation 
a. The Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation is a permanent administrative unit of ADA 
University. 
b. The Office is led by the Director of Quality Assurance and Accreditation. 
c. The Office is independent of the Quality Assurance Committee and of Curriculum and Qual-
ity Assurance Committees, but it shall continuously and substantially support these Com-
mittees in their activities. 

6. Committee Proceedings 
 
6.1 Quality Assurance Committee 
a. Meetings of the Quality Assurance Committee shall be held at least once a month and as 
often as the fulfillment of its duties may require. The Committee’s Chairperson may call ex-
traordinary meetings whenever necessary. The Committee is in recess during July and Au-
gust. 
b. Committee meetings shall be held in accordance with an agenda that is made available to 
each Committee member at least one week prior to a meeting. It is the Chairperson’s re-
sponsibility to prepare the agenda, which will be discussed, potentially adjusted, and agreed 
on at the beginning of each meeting. Approval of an agenda requires the simple majority of 
the Committee members present. 
c. Decisions by the Quality Assurance Committee shall be taken by open voting and by a sim-
ple majority of those voting members present at a meeting. 
d. Decisions can be taken only if no less than two-thirds (2/3) of the Committee’s voting mem-
bers are present at a meeting (quorum). 
e. If the votes are evenly split, the Vice Rector of Academic Affairs has the casting vote. In 
case of the Vice Rector’s absence, the final decision in such matters shall be deferred to the 
following meeting. 
f. The 2 external members of the Quality Assurance Committee have no vote, but they have 
the right to be heard at any time and/or to submit a written statement on any item on the 
Committee’s agenda. The Committee shall thoroughly consider any proposition made by 
any of the 2 external Committee members before taking a vote on the respective matter. 
g. The 2 student members of the Committee have the right to vote on matters concerning the 
learning experience of students at ADA University. Broadly defined, these include (but are 
not limited to) the evaluation of teaching, learning and assessment; the assessment, devel-
opment and modification of programs, curricula and courses; and the review of credit and 
degree regulations and of issues related to student admission and retention. The undergrad-
uate member of the Committee may only vote on matters related to the undergraduate stu-
dent experience, the graduate member of the Committee only on matters related to the 
graduate student experience at the University.

=== PAGE 4 ===
6.2 Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committees 
a. All Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committees shall meet as often as the fulfillment of 
their duties may require. It is the Chairpersons’ responsibility to call meetings whenever 
necessary. All Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committees are in recess during July and 
August. 
b. Committee meetings shall be held in accordance with an agenda that is made available to 
each Committee member at least one week prior to a meeting. It is the Chairperson’s re-
sponsibility to prepare the agenda, which will be discussed, potentially adjusted, and agreed 
on at the beginning of each meeting. Approval of an agenda requires the simple majority of 
those Committee members present. 
c. Decisions by a Committee shall be taken by open voting and by a simple majority of those 
members present at a meeting. 
d. Decisions can be taken only if no less than two-thirds (2/3) of a Committee’s members are 
present at a meeting (quorum). 
e. If the votes are evenly split, the Chairperson has the casting vote. In case of the Chairper-
son’s absence, the final decision in such matters shall be deferred to the following meeting. 

7. Responsibilities 
 
7.1 Quality Assurance Committee 
a. The Quality Assurance Committee is at the center of the University’s quality assurance sys-
tem. 
b. The Committee bases its activities on the University’s Academic Quality Assurance Policy 
and on reports and recommendations provided by the Curriculum and Quality Assurance 
Committees and the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation. 
c. To fulfill its responsibilities, the Committee may request additional reports from the Curricu-
lum and Quality Assurance Committees and the Office of Quality Assurance and Accredita-
tion whenever required. 
d. The Quality Assurance Committee has primary responsibility for the quality assessment of 
the University’s offerings and performance in the areas covered by the University’s Aca-
demic Quality Assurance Standards and Guidelines and by other relevant manuals. 
e. The Committee has primary responsibility for the assessment of structures, processes and 
documents designated to achieve and improve quality at the University. 
f. The Committee shall monitor the implementation of such documents as referred to above in 
7.1.e. 
g. The Quality Assurance Committee is no decision-making body of the University. Its main 
task within the governing structure of the University is to develop recommendations for the 
improvement of the University’s offerings and performance and of the structures, processes 
and documents designated to achieve and improve quality. It shall regularly submit these 
recommendations to the University’s major decision-making bodies (Deans’ Council and 
University Senate) for further deliberation. 
h. The Committee shall in particular fulfill the following responsibilities: 
(1) It shall regularly review the University’s Academic Quality Assurance Policy and ensure 
its implementation (see chapter 6.3.e of that policy). It shall develop an assessment 
plan that covers all relevant areas and items to be evaluated as outlined in chapter 5 of 
the policy mentioned. 
(2) It shall regularly review the current document and ensure its implementation (see chap-
ter 6.3.e of the Academic Quality Assurance Policy). It shall make suggestions to the 
University Senate for the current document’s improvement (if any) to facilitate the as-
sessment of the University’s quality assurance structures and processes as outlined in 
chapter 8 below.

=== PAGE 5 ===
(3) It shall oversee the development and/or modification of degree programs (as outlined 
in chapters 4.3 and 5.1 of the University’s Degree Program Development and Modifi-
cation Policy), of curricula and courses (see chapter 4.1 of the Curriculum and Course 
Development Policy), and of learning outcomes (see chapter 4.5 of the Core Compe-
tence and Learning Outcome Specification Policy). 
(4) It shall evaluate the results of the ongoing processes of program monitoring and of the 
periodic review of programs and assess the implementation of improvements resulting 
from these processes (see chapters 5.3, 6.2 and 6.3 of the Degree Program Monitoring 
and Review Policy). 
(5) It shall evaluate the effectiveness of the University’s mechanisms for the development, 
assessment, improvement and approval of programs and the involvement of students 
and faculty in these activities (see chapters 7.5 and 7.6 of the Academic Quality Assur-
ance Policy). 
(6) It shall evaluate the structure and meaningfulness of all the reports prepared by the 
Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation (see chapter 4.3 of the Data Manage-
ment and Reporting Regulations). 
(7) It shall assess the implementation of newly developed and of modified documents (see 
chapters 4.6 and 5.4 of the Document Development and Modification Regulations). 
(8) It elects the University’s Anti-Discrimination Officer (see chapter 5.2 of the Equity, Di-
versity and Non-Discrimination Policy) and its Data Protection Officer (see chapter 4.4 
of the Personal Data Usage and Public Information Policy). 
(9) It shall assess reports received from the Anti-Discrimination Officer (see chapter 5.2 of 
the Equity, Diversity and Non-Discrimination Policy) and from the Data Protection Of-
ficer (see chapter 4.4 of the Personal Data Usage and Public Information Policy). 
(10) It shall support the Anti-Discrimination Officer in the implementation of feedback and 
suggestions received on the issues of equity, diversity and non-discrimination (see 
chapter 4.4 of the Equity, Diversity and Non-Discrimination Policy). 
i. The particular responsibilities of the individual Committee members are as follows: 
(1) Any Committee member or members may propose measures to improve the quality of 
the University’s offerings and performance and of relevant structures, processes and 
documents whenever appropriate. 
(2) The Vice Rector of Academic Affairs is responsible to coordinate the workings of the 
Quality Assurance Committee and to ensure that it successfully fulfills its responsibili-
ties as outlined in this document and in the University’s Academic Quality Assurance 
Policy. 
(3) The Vice Rector for Enrollment Management and Student Affairs is responsible to sup-
port the Committee’s 2 student representatives and to ensure that student interests and 
concerns are adequately represented on the Committee. The Vice Rector is available 
to students who may submit feedback and suggestions for the improvement of the Uni-
versity’s educational offerings. For this purpose, s/he will regularly make students 
aware of the opportunity to contribute to the process of quality assurance by submitting 
such feedback and suggestions via the Office of Admissions and Student Records and 
the ADA Student Government. The Vice Rector furthermore ensures that the results 
from surveys conducted with students and graduates on their learning experiences at 
ADA University are thoroughly considered by the Quality Assurance Committee (for 
details on the reports resulting from these surveys, see the University’s Data Manage-
ment and Reporting Regulations). 
(4) All Vice Rectors represent the areas they are overseeing. They are responsible to in-
troduce concerns and propositions arising from these areas. They furthermore repre-
sent the perspective of the University’s leadership and shall ensure that the work of the 
Committee is aligned with the strategic goals and development of the University.

=== PAGE 6 ===
(5) The Director of Quality Assurance and Accreditation contributes the perspective and 
interests of internal and external quality assurance. He/she is responsible to ensure 
that the activities of the Quality Assurance Committee and the Office of Quality Assur-
ance and Accreditation are aligned. The Director furthermore supports the Vice Rector 
of Academic Affairs in the coordination of the workings of the Committee and is respon-
sible to take and keep the Committee’s minutes. 
(6) The 9 faculty members represent the perspective and interests of faculty. They are 
responsible to introduce concerns and propositions made by Schools and their faculty. 
They shall ensure that faculty interests and suggestions are heard by the Quality As-
surance Committee. 
(7) The 2 external members are responsible to provide an external perspective and in-
formed advice on the issues discussed by the Quality Assurance Committee and 
(whenever appropriate) on relevant institutional structures, processes and documents 
designated to achieve and improve quality. 
(8) The 2 student members on the Committee represent the perspective and interests of 
students. They are responsible to introduce concerns and propositions made by stu-
dents and the ADA Student Government. They shall closely cooperate with the latter 
and ensure that student interests and suggestions are heard by the Quality Assurance 
Committee. 
j. In addition to what is outlined above in 7.1.g, the Quality Assurance Committee (represented 
by its Chair) regularly reports to the Deans’ Council and the University Senate on the pro-
ceedings and results of the Quality Assurance Committee. 
k. The Quality Assurance Committee is accountable to the University Senate. The Committee 
(represented by its Chair) provides a comprehensive report to the Senate at the end of each 
academic year, covering the Committee’s key activities and accomplishments during that 
year. This shall include key activities and results of the Curriculum and Quality Assurance 
Committees (as outlined below in chapter 7.2). 
 
7.2 Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committees 
a. The Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committees support the Quality Assurance Commit-
tee in the assessment and enhancement of the University’s offerings and performance and 
of the structures, processes and documents designated to achieve and improve quality at 
the University. 
b. More specifically, the Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committees are responsible to as-
sess the offerings and performance of their respective Schools (including the Foundation 
Program and the English for Academic and Professional Purposes Program). 
c. Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committees shall in particular (and at least) fulfill the 
following responsibilities: 
(1) They shall regularly monitor the programs offered at their respective Schools (including 
the Foundation Program and the English for Academic and Professional Purposes Pro-
gram) as outlined in chapter 5 of the University’s Degree Program Monitoring and Re-
view Policy. This includes overseeing the implementation of suggestions for improve-
ment resulting from the process of program monitoring. 
(2) They shall monitor the implementation of improvement plans resulting from the periodic 
review of degree programs (as outlined in chapter 6 of the Degree Program Monitoring 
and Review Policy). 
(3) They shall monitor the development of program descriptions and course syllabi (see 
chapter 4.4 of the Curriculum and Course Development Policy). They may additionally 
be allocated the tasks of designing and developing curricula and courses (see chapter 
4.1 of the same policy), of specifying core competencies and learning outcomes on the 
level of programs and courses (see chapter 4.2 of the Core Competence and Learning 
Outcome Specification Policy), and of developing and modifying degree programs (see

=== PAGE 7 ===
chapters 4.3 and 5.1 of the Degree Program Development and Modification Policy). 
This includes the Foundation Program (see chapter 4.1 of the Foundation Program 
Regulations) and the EAPP Program (see chapter 5.1 of the English for Academic and 
Professional Purposes Regulations). 
(4) They shall regularly elicit feedback from students and faculty on the quality of the 
School’s offerings and assess the feedback received. 
d. The Chairperson of a Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committee is responsible to take 
and keep the Committee’s minutes. 
e. Each Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committee regularly provides reports on the results 
of its activities to the Quality Assurance Committee. These reports need to include relevant 
information on the respective School’s offerings and performance as well as recommenda-
tions for the improvement of the School or University in relevant areas whenever appropri-
ate. 
f. It is the responsibility of a School’s representative on the Quality Assurance Committee to 
present the reports mentioned above to the Committee. He/she shall furthermore ensure 
that relevant information resulting from the meetings of the Committee are passed on to the 
School’s Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committee(s) and to its faculty and administra-
tive members. 
g. The respective School’s representative on the Quality Assurance Committee shall in general 
ensure that the work of the School’s Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committee(s) is 
coordinated with the Quality Assurance Committee and that there is smooth and efficient 
communication between the institutional and the School level. 
h. Each Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committee (represented by its Chair) shall provide 
a comprehensive report to the Quality Assurance Committee at the end of each academic 
year, covering the Committee’s key quality assurance-related activities and accomplish-
ments during that year. The Quality Assurance Committee may make suggestions for the 
further improvement of each of the Curriculum and Quality Assurance Committee’s activi-
ties. 
 
7.3 Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation 
a. The Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation provides continuous and substantial sup-
port to the Quality Assurance Committee and the Curriculum and Quality Assurance Com-
mittees. The Quality Assurance Committee may request the assistance of the Office when-
ever necessary in order to fulfill its obligations effectively and efficiently. 
b. The Office prepares reports that facilitate data-based decision making according to the re-
quirements delineated in the University’s Data Management and Reporting Regulations. It 
submits these reports to the Quality Assurance Committee, the Curriculum and Quality As-
surance Committees, to the University’s decision-making bodies, and to other relevant 
stakeholders. The Office furthermore gathers select data as outlined in the document men-
tioned and adds this data to the University’s Academic Performance and Quality Assurance 
Database. It monitors the implementation of the requirements outlined in the Data Manage-
ment and Reporting Regulations. 
c. The Office develops and improves documents designated to the achievement and enhance-
ment of quality, or it coordinates and supports such activities (see the Document Develop-
ment and Modification Regulations). It assists the Quality Assurance Committee in the iden-
tification of potential deficits and gaps in the University’s Academic Quality Assurance 
Standards and Guidelines and in further manuals. In case the Office is the document owner, 
it is responsible to keep track of and file documents and ensure their publication and distri-
bution as required by the Document Development and Modification Regulations and the 
Document Format and Control Regulations.

=== PAGE 8 ===
d. The Office ensures that the University’s quality assurance mechanisms are aligned with 
relevant international and national frameworks defining standards for academic quality, in-
cluding the Standards and Guidelines for Quality Assurance in the European Higher Educa-
tion Area (ESG) of 2015, and the national Evaluation Criteria for Institutional Accreditation 
of Higher Education Institutions (Ali təhsil müəssisəsinin institusional akkreditasiyası üzrə 
qiymətləndirmə meyarları). 
e. The Office ensures that the University’s quality assurance mechanisms are coordinated with 
the standards and requirements of relevant accrediting agencies and thus with ongoing and 
envisaged accreditation projects. 
f. The Office provides information on the frameworks, standards and requirements mentioned 
above in 7.3.d and 7.3.e to relevant members of the University. 
g. The Office coordinates, supervises and realizes all (national and international) accreditation 
projects at the institutional level. It coordinates, supervises and supports such accreditation 
projects at the program level. 
h. The Office supports Schools and faculty in the design, development, evaluation and im-
provement of programs, curricula and courses (as outlined in the University’s Degree Pro-
gram Development and Modification Policy, its Curriculum and Course Development Policy, 
and its Core Competence and Learning Outcome Specification Policy). This includes the 
definition of learning outcomes and the development of program descriptions and course 
syllabi. The Office is furthermore responsible to provide and regular review a Guide to Learn-
ing Outcomes (see chapter 4.6 of the latter policy). 
i. The Office supports Schools and faculty in their responsibility to monitor and review pro-
grams as outlined in the Degree Program Monitoring and Review Policy. 
j. The Office supports the further qualification of faculty by offering and/or organizing trainings 
and workshops in areas relevant to teaching, learning and assessment. It coordinates such 
activities with the University’s Department of Organization and Personnel where appropri-
ate. 
k. The Office provides information sessions to the University’s students, faculty and staff to 
promote a wider understanding and endorsement of the University’s quality assurance sys-
tem and its purposes. If required, the Office furthermore supports the organization of train-
ings for units and members of the University affected by newly developed or modified doc-
uments (as outlined in chapters 4.6 and 5.4 of the Document Development and Modification 
Regulations). 
l. The Office, in collaboration with the Vice Rector of Academic Affairs, regularly communi-
cates relevant activities, developments and results in the areas of quality assurance and 
accreditation to the ADA University community. 
m. The Office, in collaboration with the Office of Marketing and Communications, ensures that 
relevant data and information on the University’s performance is placed on the website (see 
chapter 5.2 of the Personal Data Usage and Public Information Policy). 
n. The Office supports the University’s Anti-Discrimination Officer and its Data Protection Of-
ficer in the fulfillment of their responsibilities, which are outlined in the Equity, Diversity and 
Non-Discrimination Policy and the Personal Data Usage and Public Information Policy. 
o. The Office needs to ensure that there is an ongoing and substantial involvement of relevant 
stakeholders in the University’s quality assurance and accreditation activities. 
p. The Director of Quality Assurance and Accreditation regularly reports to the Vice Rector of 
Academic Affairs and to the Quality Assurance Committee. 

8. Assessment of Quality Assurance Structures and Processes 
 
8.1 Assessing the appropriateness and effectiveness of the University’s quality assurance struc-
tures and processes is the responsibility of the University Senate.

=== PAGE 9 ===
8.2 The Senate shall furthermore evaluate the annual report received from the Quality Assurance 
Committee as outlined above in chapter 7.1.k. The Senate reserves the right to make recom-
mendations on the Committee’s activities.