=== PAGE 1 ===
GRADUATE DEGREE REGULATIONS 

1. Purpose 
 
ADA University strives to ensure the coherence, breadth, and high quality of its graduate degree 
programs. This requires that all programs adhere to certain degree requirements, even if these re-
quirements may differ across different Schools and programs. The purpose of this document is to 
outline ADA University’s graduate degree regulations. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
These regulations apply to all graduate degree programs at ADA University. 
 
The requirements outlined in this document comply with national regulations for higher education. 
They should be read alongside ADA University’s Credit Regulations and its Curriculum Structure 
and Regulations. 
 
Graduate students are expected to be thoroughly familiar with all the degree requirements set forth 
in this document. 

3. Definitions 
 
Graduate Degree Programs encompass all Master programs offered at ADA University. 
 
The Term Grade Point Average (TGPA) indicates a student’s academic performance during a spe-
cific semester or term. It is calculated in the following manner: (1) For each unit of study considered, 
grade points earned are multiplied by credit hours attempted. (2) The resulting values for all the units 
of study considered are added up. (3) The resulting sum is then divided by the credit hours attempted 
that semester or term. The term GPA does not cover units of study evaluated on a Pass/Fail basis, 
and it only includes the highest grade earned in a repeated course. 
 
The Cumulative GPA (CGPA) indicates a student’s overall academic performance in a degree pro-
gram. It is calculated in the same manner as the Term Grade Point Average, but includes all units 
of study attempted by the time of calculation. Grades from approved transfer courses taken at an-
other institution do not count towards a student’s cumulative GPA at ADA University. Neither do 
units of study evaluated on a Pass/Fail basis. The cumulative GPA only includes the highest grade 
earned in a repeated course. 

4. Graduate Degree Regulations 
 
4.1 General Provisions 
a. Students must complete the minimum requirements outlined in this document to be eligible 
for a graduate degree. 
b. Students must graduate under the Academic Catalogue in effect at the time of their first 
enrollment for a specific graduate degree program at ADA University. Students may not 
tailor-make their own degree requirements by selecting and combining requirements from 
different catalogues.

=== PAGE 2 ===
4.2 Program and Graduation Requirements 
a. Students must complete at least 90 credit hours (in regular graduate degree programs) or 
76 credit hours (in practice-based degree programs such as the MBA in Finance) with a 
cumulative GPA of 2.75 or better. At least 72 credit hours (for 90 credit programs) or 58 
credit hours (for 76 credit programs) must be completed in residence at ADA University. 
Minimum credit requirements may vary depending on the program. 
b. Most graduate degree programs at ADA University have a Major Core component and a 
Major Elective component. The programs MBA in Finance and Master of Arts in Global Man-
agement and Politics as well as the degree programs delivered in Azerbaijani have only the 
Major Core component. 
c. Major Core courses are designed to offer a fundamental understanding of subjects covered 
by a student’s main field of specialization. The Major Core component usually covers at least 
72 credit hours. 
d. Major Electives are designed to cover advanced topics in a student’s main field of speciali-
zation. A graduate degree program that includes a Major Elective component usually re-
quires no more than 18 credits or 3 courses for the component. 
e. All graduate degree programs at ADA University include an Independent Study requirement. 
Students must complete either a Capstone Project or a Master’s Thesis. Individual programs 
may use a different title for the Independent Study requirement, which will be indicated in 
the respective program description. In all graduate degree programs, the Independent Study 
requirement is considered to be part of the Major Core component and usually covers up to 
18 credit hours. 
f. Unless a degree program has specified different requirements, the minimum graduation re-
quirement of 90 (or 76) credit hours must satisfy the requirements of the Major Core com-
ponent and the Major Elective component. The Office of Admissions and Student Records 
will officially graduate all the students who have completed the credit requirements for the 
relevant program. 
 
4.3 Time Limit for Degree Completion 
a. Graduate students enrolled in full-time degree programs are expected to complete all degree 
requirements in no more than two academic years after the date of their first enrollment in 
the respective program. 
b. Students must complete all degree requirements in no more than three years after the date 
of their first enrollment in the program. This may require that they also attend classes during 
Summer terms. In case students fail to graduate within three years, they may request an 
extension of the duration of their studies. The Dean of the respective School, together with 
the Office of Admissions and Student Records, may grant the extension. An extension may 
have financial and other implications. 
c. Periods of separation from the University and temporary leaves do not count towards the 
time limit for degree completion.