=== PAGE 1 ===
DEGREE AUDIT AND CERTIFICATION 
REGULATIONS 

1. Purpose 
 
ADA University strives to ensure the high quality and integrity of its degrees. This requires that the 
performance and progress of students are reviewed regularly and that degrees are audited in a 
uniform manner according to the University’s Undergraduate Degree Regulations and Graduate De-
gree Regulations as well as further requirements defined for a specific program. The purpose of this 
document is to outline ADA University’s degree audit processes. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
These regulations apply to all students enrolled in an undergraduate or graduate degree program at 
ADA University. They outline rules and procedures for the regular audit of student progress and 
degree completion conducted by the Office of Admissions and Student Records and by Academic 
Advisors. 
 
Those members of ADA University responsible for monitoring and evaluating student progress and 
degree completion are expected to be thoroughly familiar with this document and with ADA Univer-
sity’s Undergraduate Degree Regulations and Graduate Degree Regulations. 
 
Students are strongly advised to monitor their progress towards degree completion on a regular 
basis. 

3. Definitions 
 
A Degree Audit is a formal analysis of a student’s progress towards degree completion. It further-
more serves to evaluate whether a student has fulfilled all program requirements before being 
awarded a degree. 
 
The Term Grade Point Average (TGPA) indicates a student’s academic performance during a spe-
cific semester or term. It is calculated in the following manner: (1) For each unit of study considered, 
grade points earned are multiplied by credit hours attempted. (2) The resulting values for all the units 
of study considered are added up. (3) The resulting sum is then divided by the credit hours attempted 
that semester or term. The term GPA does not cover units of study evaluated on a Pass/Fail basis, 
and it only includes the highest grade earned in a repeated course. 
 
The Cumulative GPA (CGPA) indicates a student’s overall academic performance in a degree pro-
gram. It is calculated in the same manner as the Term Grade Point Average, but includes all units 
of study attempted by the time of calculation. Grades from approved transfer courses taken at an-
other institution do not count towards a student’s cumulative GPA at ADA University. Neither do 
units of study evaluated on a Pass/Fail basis. The cumulative GPA only includes the highest grade 
earned in a repeated course. 
 
The Banner Student Information System (Banner SIS) is an electronic database of student records 
and further relevant student information. It is used for data collection, reporting, and for managing 
day-to-day academic operations at ADA University.

=== PAGE 2 ===
Curriculum Advising and Program Planning (CAPP) is a tool available in Banner SIS that allows for 
the digital representation of degree program requirements. It enables students as well as academic 
and administrative staff members to monitor and evaluate a student’s progress towards the comple-
tion of these requirements. 
 
MyADA is a centralized portal available to students, faculty and staff that provides access to major 
electronic services offered at ADA University. 

4. Degree Audit Procedures and Requirements 
 
4.1 The progress of students towards degree completion must be monitored regularly and as spec-
ified below. The University furthermore conducts degree evaluation processes prior to the grad-
uation of students and the processing of degrees. 
4.2 Degree audits consist of formal and systematic assessments of a student’s progress and level 
of attainment, and of informal processes of a student’s self-evaluation. 
4.3 Degree audits fulfill the following purposes: 
a. They support the retention of students by monitoring their progress towards degree comple-
tion. 
b. They serve to ensure that students are able to graduate on time. 
c. They ensure that degrees are awarded only to students who have fulfilled all requirements 
of their respective degrees on at least a satisfactory level. 
4.4 ADA University uses the Curriculum Advising and Program Planning (CAPP) tool available in 
Banner SIS to create digital representations of program requirements. Each degree program’s 
CAPP includes courses, credits, and minimum passing grades. Students, Academic Advisors, 
and designated members of a student’s School (such as Deans and Associate Deans) have 
access to relevant student information via MyADA. They are thus able to monitor and assess a 
student’s performance against degree requirements and his/her progress towards degree com-
pletion. 
4.5 Academic Advisors regularly assess their designated students’ results and academic perfor-
mance in order to provide assistance during the semester as well as before and during course 
registration for the following semester. This is to ensure that students continue to fulfill all re-
quirements of their respective degree programs and are able to graduate on time. 
4.6 In order to progress towards degree completion (“good academic standing”), undergraduate 
students must maintain a cumulative GPA of 2.00, graduate students a cumulative GPA of 2.75. 
4.7 Undergraduate students must repeat courses with a grade below D (the courses Writing and 
Information Literary I and Writing and Information Literary II must be repeated if students re-
ceive a grade below C-). Students of the English for Academic and Professional Purposes 
(EAPP) Program must usually repeat a level with an overall grade below C (for details on the 
EAPP Program, see ADA University’s English for Academic and Professional Purposes Regu-
lations). Graduate students must repeat courses with a grade below C. 
4.8 An undergraduate student is placed on academic probation if the student’s cumulative GPA 
falls below 2.00 at the end of a semester. Students who achieve a cumulative GPA of at least 
2.00 are restored to good academic standing. Undergraduate students on academic probation 
are required to adhere to the following rules: 
a. They are strongly recommended to take one course less than their standard course load for 
the respective semester(s). 
b. They are strongly recommended to repeat failed courses as early as possible, provided that 
the courses are offered. 
c. They must regularly meet with their Academic Advisor. 
d. They must participate in a student success program.

=== PAGE 3 ===
4.9 A graduate student is placed on academic probation if the student’s cumulative GPA falls below 
2.75 at the end of a semester. Students who achieve a cumulative GPA of at least 2.75 are 
restored to good academic standing. 
4.10 As part of the objective to ensure the high quality and integrity of ADA University’s degrees, 
and before a degree may be awarded, the Office of Admissions and Student Records evaluates 
a student’s overall academic performance against the requirements set forth in the Undergrad-
uate Degree Regulations or Graduate Degree Regulations and in the program description of 
the student’s degree program. 
4.11 For graduation, students must have completed all the requirements of their respective degree 
programs. 
4.12 For graduation, undergraduate students must have completed at least 240 credit hours with a 
cumulative GPA of 2.00 or better (some undergraduate programs may require more than 240 
credit hours for the completion of all requirements). Graduate students must complete at least 
90 credit hours with a cumulative GPA of 2.75 or better (some graduate programs may require 
a different number of credit hours for the completion of all requirements). 
4.13 In order to fulfill ADA University’s degree regulations, the University requires that students ac-
quire 210 credits (undergraduate programs) or 72 credits (graduate programs) in residence 
(some graduate programs may require a different number of credits to be completed in resi-
dence). Students may accordingly transfer a maximum of 30 credits (undergraduate programs) 
or of 18 credits (graduate programs) to ADA University (for details, see the Undergraduate 
Degree Regulations and Graduate Degree Regulations). 
4.14 The integrity of ADA University’s degrees also requires that plagiarism and academic cheating 
are prevented or sanctioned (should they occur). As stated in its Honor Code, the University 
aims to foster an attitude of honesty and integrity in all its students. To this end, students are 
trained in proper academic conduct. Violations of the principles of academic honesty and integ-
rity may result in failed courses and written warnings, in a temporary suspension from classes, 
or in permanent expulsion from the University. 

5. Degree Certification 
 
5.1 Upon the successful completion of all degree requirements, and thus upon graduation, a stu-
dent will receive a degree certificate (diploma) that is issued by the Ministry of Science and 
Education of the Republic of Azerbaijan and signed by the Rector of ADA University. This cer-
tificate provides information on the name and level of the degree program completed by the 
student. 
5.2 A student will also be issued a transcript of records by the University that provides an overview 
of all attended courses (and of the grades achieved) by the student during his/her studies.