=== PAGE 1 ===
UNDERGRADUATE DEGREE REGULATIONS 

1. Purpose 
 
ADA University strives to ensure the coherence, breadth, and high quality of its undergraduate de-
gree programs. This requires that all programs adhere to certain degree requirements, even if these 
requirements may differ across different Schools and programs. The purpose of this document is to 
outline ADA University’s undergraduate degree regulations. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
These regulations apply to all undergraduate degree programs at ADA University. 
 
The requirements outlined in this document comply with national regulations for higher education. 
They should be read alongside ADA University’s Credit Regulations and its Curriculum Structure 
and Regulations. 
 
Undergraduate students are expected to be thoroughly familiar with all the degree requirements set 
forth in this document. 

3. Definitions 
 
Undergraduate Degree Programs encompass all Bachelor programs offered at ADA University. 
 
The Term Grade Point Average (TGPA) indicates a student’s academic performance during a spe-
cific semester or term. It is calculated in the following manner: (1) For each unit of study considered, 
grade points earned are multiplied by credit hours attempted. (2) The resulting values for all the units 
of study considered are added up. (3) The resulting sum is then divided by the credit hours attempted 
that semester or term. The term GPA does not cover units of study evaluated on a Pass/Fail basis, 
and it only includes the highest grade earned in a repeated course. 
 
The Cumulative GPA (CGPA) indicates a student’s overall academic performance in a degree pro-
gram. It is calculated in the same manner as the Term Grade Point Average, but includes all units 
of study attempted by the time of calculation. Grades from approved transfer courses taken at an-
other institution do not count towards a student’s cumulative GPA at ADA University. Neither do 
units of study evaluated on a Pass/Fail basis. The cumulative GPA only includes the highest grade 
earned in a repeated course. 
 
A Second Career Track is an additional course load that students can choose to open up further 
professional opportunities. 

4. Undergraduate Degree Regulations 
 
4.1 General Provisions 
a. Students must complete the minimum requirements outlined in this document to be eligible 
for an undergraduate degree. 
b. Students must graduate under the Academic Catalogue in effect at the time of their first 
enrollment for a specific undergraduate degree program at ADA University. Students may

=== PAGE 2 ===
not tailor-make their own degree requirements by selecting and combining requirements 
from different catalogues. 
c. Depending on a student’s English language level upon admission, he/she may need to suc-
cessfully complete the English for Academic and Professional Purposes Program before 
being able to enroll in his/her degree program (for details, see the University’s English for 
Academic and Professional Purposes Regulations). 
 
4.2 Program and Graduation Requirements 
a. Students must complete at least 240 credit hours with a cumulative GPA of 2.00 or better. 
The last 30 credit hours must be completed in residence at ADA University. Undergraduate 
students may transfer up to 30 credits from an international institution of higher education. 
There may be exceptions in case the University has an agreement with another institution 
of higher education. 
b. Most undergraduate degree programs at ADA University have a Foundation Program com-
ponent, which usually consists of 8 University Core Courses and 2 School Core Courses 
(for details, see the University’s Foundation Program Regulations). The successful comple-
tion of 60 credit hours (or 10 courses) is thus usually required to meet the University’s Foun-
dation Program requirements. These requirements are similar across all programs, but they 
may differ depending on the nature of the degree. 
c. Students are expected to complete the Foundation Program component during the first year 
of studying their respective degree program. In no case may they substitute Foundation 
Program courses for Major Core or Major Elective courses. 
d. In addition to the Foundation Program component, typical undergraduate degree programs 
at ADA University include the following components: Major Core, Major Elective, Free Elec-
tive, and Internship. The minimum credit requirements for these components may vary de-
pending on the program. 
e. Major Core courses are designed to offer a fundamental understanding of subjects covered 
by a student’s main field of specialization. The Major Core component usually consists of a 
minimum of 120 credits or 20 courses and of up to 168 credits or 28 courses. 
f. Major Electives are designed to cover advanced topics in a student’s main field of speciali-
zation. Undergraduate degree programs at ADA University typically have a Major Elective 
component that usually consists of a minimum of 6 credits or 1 course and of up to 30 credits 
or 5 courses. Students attend these courses during their last year of study. 
g. Free Electives are courses that are not an integral part of a student’s degree program. They 
can be chosen from any other degree program offered at ADA University. Undergraduate 
degree programs at ADA University typically have a Free Elective component that consists 
of 24 credits or 4 courses. Some programs may allocate fewer credits to the Free Elective 
component. Students usually attend Free Elective courses during their third and fourth year 
of study. 
h. Internships allow students to gain practical experience in an area related to their studies. 
Undergraduate degree programs at ADA University typically have an Internship component 
that consists of at least 6 credits. 
i. The minimum graduation requirement of 240 credit hours must satisfy all the degree require-
ments mentioned in 4.2. Some programs may require more than 240 credit hours for the 
completion of all program requirements. The Office of Admissions and Student Records will 
officially graduate all the students who have completed the credit requirements for the rele-
vant program. 
 
4.3 Second Career Track 
a. Undergraduate students may pursue a second career track. 
b. Several second career tracks are available across different degree programs at ADA Uni-
versity, all of which consist of a predefined set of six courses.

=== PAGE 3 ===
c. Students who wish to pursue a second career track must consult with their Academic Advi-
sor to plan their second career track (i.e., their Free Electives and course overloads). 
 
4.4 Changes in Degree Program or School Affiliation 
a. Students may request to change their degree program within a School or transfer to a de-
gree program offered by another School of ADA University. Students wishing to do so are 
strongly recommended to consult with their Academic Advisor to determine their options. 
b. A change of degree program or School affiliation requires the permission of the Dean of the 
School that serves as the target degree program’s administrative home. 
c. Schools may establish additional requirements for changing a degree program or School 
affiliation. 
 
4.5 Degree Completion 
a. After the completion of the English for Academic and Professional Purposes Program (if 
applicable), undergraduate students are expected to complete all degree requirements in 
no more than four academic years after the date of their first enrollment in their respective 
program. 
b. Students may receive an extension to complete their degree program. The extension may 
have financial and other implications. 
c. Periods of separation from the University and temporary leaves do not count towards the 
time required for degree completion.