

===== PAGE 1 =====
Doc No: QA-QAA-08 
Version: 02.00 
Date Effective: 01 Nov 2024 
 
CORE COMPETENCE AND LEARNING 
OUTCOME SPECIFICATION POLICY 

1. Purpose 
 
Teaching and learning at ADA University are outcome oriented. They are based on a set of core 
competencies that provide a point of reference for all the University’s degree programs and on pro-
gram- and course-level learning outcomes that align with these competencies. The main objective 
is for students to achieve specific learning outcomes and acquire essential competencies. To foster 
and assess student success, the level of student achievement of learning outcomes needs to be 
evaluated according to clearly defined criteria. 
 
The purpose of this policy is to outline procedures and requirements for the specification of learning 
outcomes, assessment criteria and grade descriptions on the level of programs and/or courses. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This policy applies to all degree programs (including the Foundation Program and the English for 
Academic and Professional Purposes Program) and to all courses offered at ADA University. 
 
This document should be read in conjunction with ADA University’s Degree Program Development 
and Modification Policy, its Curriculum and Course Development Policy, and its Statement of Core 
Competencies. 

3. Definitions 
 
In accordance with the European Reference Framework of 2007, Competence is defined as “a com-
bination of knowledge, skills and attitudes”. Core Competencies are general statements of qualities 
that a student is expected to demonstrate upon graduation, and this regardless of a specific degree 
program. 
 
Core competencies are further specified by learning outcomes. Learning Outcomes are more de-
tailed statements of what a student is expected to know, understand and be able to demonstrate 
upon the completion of a course or degree program. 
 
Program Objectives are general statements that describe the broad goals of a program and the 
competencies students are expected to have acquired upon graduation. They draw on the core 
competencies set forth in ADA University’s Statement of Core Competencies. 
 
Curriculum Mapping is a process in which program learning outcomes are sequentially and coher-
ently distributed across the courses of a specific degree program. 
 
A Curriculum Map indicates in which of its courses the program’s learning outcomes are taught and 
assessed. 
 
Assessment Criteria delineate precise requirements for the achievement of learning outcomes. 
These requirements are clearly defined statements of what a student is expected to demonstrate


===== PAGE 2 =====
2 | P a g e 
during or at the end of a process of learning in order to have partly or fully achieved a specific 
learning outcome. They thus provide detailed guidelines for the evaluation of assessment tasks. 
 
Grade Descriptors are terms (such as excellent, satisfactory, or academic fail) that serve to express 
a student’s level of performance in a specific assessment task, course or unit of study (for details, 
see ADA University’s Student Assessment Regulations). 
 
Grade Descriptions provide definitions of grade descriptors. Grade descriptions are based on the 
level on which learning outcomes are achieved. This level of achievement is indicated by the extent 
to which assessment criteria are fulfilled. The latter presupposes that learning outcomes and as-
sessment methods are aligned (for details, see ADA University’s Student Assessment Regulations). 
 
A Grading Rubric is a scoring guide that allows for the precise evaluation of student performance in 
a specific assignment. It further specifies (subdivides) grade descriptors and thus explicates the 
achievement of grade scale percentages and the allocation of grade points. 

4. General Provisions 
 
4.1 The procedures and requirements delineated in this policy tie in with chapters 4.2.e and 4.3.e 
of the University’s Curriculum and Course Development Policy. They apply both to the devel-
opment and to the modification of (degree) programs and courses. 
4.2 In line with chapter 4.1.a of the policy mentioned above, the responsibility for the specification 
of core competencies and learning outcomes on the level of programs and/or courses rests with 
the faculty of the School or Schools involved in the delivery of a degree program. It may be 
delegated to the Curriculum Committee(s) of the respective School(s). Schools are recom-
mended to allocate the development of learning outcomes, assessment criteria and grade de-
scriptions on the level of courses to small groups of faculty members involved in the delivery of 
specific courses. 
4.3 The results of the activities described below in chapters 5 and 6 must be included in the Pro-
gram Description Form and the Course Syllabus Form respectively, both of which can be found 
in Appendix II of ADA University’s Academic Quality Assurance Standards and Guidelines (for 
details, see chapter 4.4. of the Curriculum and Course Development Policy). 
4.4 Those specifying competencies and learning outcomes are advised that not all program learn-
ing outcomes need to be represented in each individual course. Yet, each course must reflect 
them adequately and ensure that the entire process of teaching, learning and assessment is 
fully aligned with the selected outcomes. Courses form part of degree programs, and it is 
through each program and its coherent structure of courses that the Schools must ensure that 
outcomes (and ultimately core competencies) are comprehensively covered. 
4.5 Throughout the process of core competence and learning outcome specification, the Office of 
Quality Assurance and Accreditation will assume an advisory function, the Quality Assurance 
Committee an oversight function (see chapter 4.1.c of the Curriculum and Course Development 
Policy). 
4.6 It is the particular responsibility of the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation to provide 
and regularly review a Guide to Learning Outcomes that provides clear and easy-to-follow guid-
ance to faculty in the specification of core competencies and learning outcomes. 
4.7 As outlined in chapter 4.1.b of the Curriculum and Course Development Policy, the process of 
competence and learning outcome specification needs to involve the external faculty consult-
ant(s) and potential further stakeholders referred to in chapters 4.2.b and 4.6.d of the Univer-
sity’s Degree Program Development and Modification Policy. In the case of dual degree pro-
grams, and as set forth in chapters 8.3 and 8.4 of the latter policy, the external perspective will 
be provided by one or more member(s) of the partner institution.


===== PAGE 3 =====
3 | P a g e 
4.8 It is the responsibility of Deans, Associate Deans and Program Directors to ensure that the 
procedures delineated in this policy are fully implemented and that program objectives, learning 
outcomes, assessment criteria and grade descriptions are phrased adequately and based on 
the requirements set forth in this document. This also includes the appropriate distribution of 
learning outcomes throughout programs. 

5. Procedures and Requirements for the Program Level 
 
5.1 Program Objectives 
a. Each (degree) program requires clearly defined program objectives. These must be geared 
to and adequately reflect the respective program. 
b. The program objectives must be phrased coherently and be well structured. They must 
clearly relate to the core competencies set forth in the University’s Statement of Core Com-
petencies and include information at least on the program’s structure and duration, its scope 
and subject matter (content), on the qualifications gained by students upon graduation, and 
on their employment opportunities after graduation. The program objectives may incorporate 
further information relevant to a program. 
 
5.2 Program Learning Outcomes 
a. Each (degree) program requires clearly defined learning outcomes. These must be informed 
by and aligned with the program’s objectives. 
b. Most program learning outcomes must clearly relate to and systematically reflect the core 
competencies set forth in the University’s Statement of Core Competencies. The achieve-
ment of program learning outcomes thus allows students to acquire the expected compe-
tencies. This also means that (program) learning outcomes, as opposed to competencies, 
need to be phrased so that they are measurable (as outlined below). The achievement of 
competencies is assessed by assessing the achievement of clearly measurable learning 
outcomes. 
c. When aligning program learning outcomes with competencies, faculty may either allocate 
each learning outcome to one competence, or they may create a list of learning outcomes 
that, taken together, cover all core competencies. They may also decide on a combination 
of both options. 
d. Faculty may also define additional and program-specific learning outcomes that do not di-
rectly relate to the University’s core competencies. 
e. Since familiarity with a program’s subject matter is a precondition for the achievement of 
more advanced learning outcomes, which (in turn) are crucial for the achievement of essen-
tial competencies, faculty must ensure that knowledge-related learning outcomes are suffi-
ciently incorporated into the program. 
f. When developing the systematic compilation of learning outcomes for a program, faculty are 
recommended to consider the 3 different domains of learning (cognitive, affective, psycho-
motor) where appropriate. 
g. Program learning outcomes must clearly relate to international points of reference. More 
particularly, they must draw on and significantly reflect the standards and requirements de-
fined for learning outcomes by a relevant and renowned international agency that is accred-
iting programs. Faculty may decide to consult and adhere to further standards and require-
ments of the selected agency when developing program objectives, course learning out-
comes, assessment criteria and grade descriptions as outlined above in chapter 5.1 and 
below in chapter 6. 
h. If required, the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation will support faculty in selecting 
relevant accrediting agencies. Should no such agency exist, learning outcomes for a pro-
gram will be developed by faculty in close collaboration with the Office.


===== PAGE 4 =====
4 | P a g e 
i. Program learning outcomes must be specified in a manner that aligns with the Qualifications 
Framework for the European Higher Education Area (QF-EHEA) revised in 2018, and the 
National Qualifications Framework for Lifelong Learning of the Republic of Azerbaijan 
(Azərbaycan Respublikasının Ömürboyu Təhsil üzrə Milli Kvalifikasiya Çərçivəsi). They 
must thus be tailored to the level of a program (undergraduate or graduate), which ensures 
that graduates acquire qualifications that are appropriate to this level. This also ensures a 
coherent connection between the different levels, allowing for a gradual deepening of learn-
ing and of the qualifications acquired by students. 
j. For undergraduate degree programs, it is recommended that program learning outcomes 
are phrased on 3 different aspiration levels, namely Introductory (I), Developed (D), and 
Proficient (P). For each learning outcome, this would result in one general program learning 
outcome and its specification on a maximum of 3 levels. 
k. For graduate degree programs, it is equally recommended to phrase program learning out-
comes on up to 3 aspiration levels (I, D, P) while ensuring a smooth transition from the 
undergraduate to the graduate level that reflects the descriptions of different qualification 
cycles (undergraduate and graduate) outlined in the QF-EHEA referred to above in 5.2.i. 
This can be done by (for instance) considering the proficient aspiration level of undergradu-
ate programs as equivalent to the introductory aspiration level of graduate programs. Faculty 
are free to develop alternative solutions to the implementation of the QF-EHEA and the 
alignment of the undergraduate and graduate level, provided that these solutions allow for 
a gradual deepening and progression of learning and of the qualifications acquired by stu-
dents. 
l. The elaboration of program learning outcomes on different aspiration levels may alterna-
tively be done when specifying program learning outcomes for individual courses as outlined 
below in 6.1. 
m. The proficient aspiration level of a program learning outcome reflects the full achievement 
of this outcome during or at the end of a program. Faculty must ensure that learning out-
comes essential to a program reach the proficient level, while other learning outcomes may 
remain on the introductory or developed level. 
n. The specification of program learning outcomes on up to 3 aspiration levels will allow for a 
sequential and coherent distribution of learning outcomes across the courses of a degree 
program as outlined below in 5.3. Schools thus ensure that the gradual fulfillment of learning 
outcomes throughout a program allows students to achieve all the program’s learning out-
comes on the envisaged aspiration level. Students are thus also able to acquire all the Uni-
versity’s core competencies upon graduation and according to the level of their degree pro-
gram. As is the case with learning outcomes, the level of achievement of specific core com-
petencies may vary and depend on the field of a program. 
o. Program learning outcomes must be phrased so that they are adequate to a program and 
its subject matter. 
p. Each program learning outcome must consist of a complete sentence with one or more 
active and measurable verb(s), which is (are) followed by one or several objects (nouns). 
The verbs and objects of learning outcomes must be clear and precise. 
q. When phrasing learning outcomes, faculty are strongly recommended to consult a revised 
version of Bloom’s Taxonomy, keep learning outcomes short, and avoid complicated sen-
tences. 
r. While making sure that program learning outcomes cover all the University’s competencies 
as well as the essentials of a program, faculty are to avoid overloading programs with learn-
ing outcomes. 
s. When specifying learning outcomes for dual degree programs, faculty need to cooperate 
closely with faculty members from the partner institution. While learning outcomes across 
programs (including dual degree programs) need to form a well-structured and coherent 
whole, ADA University, at the same time, acknowledges differences between institutions in


===== PAGE 5 =====
5 | P a g e 
terms of their approaches to learning outcomes. As a result, faculty need to be flexible when 
specifying learning outcomes for dual degree programs. They may need to define relations 
of equivalence while trying to ensure that the University’s core competencies are fully cov-
ered by the program’s learning outcomes. 
 
5.3 The Curriculum Map 
a. After having completed the specification of program learning outcomes as outlined above in 
5.2, the program’s curriculum map must be set up. 
b. The curriculum map will indicate in which of the program’s courses specific learning out-
comes are taught and assessed. Since courses may place more emphasis on some learning 
outcomes and less on others, the map will (for each course) provide the following infor-
mation: No Emphasis (-), Some Emphasis (1), or Strong Emphasis (2). 
c. The curriculum map will (for each course) also indicate the level on which the respective 
learning outcome is taught and assessed: Introductory (I), Developed (D), or Proficient (P). 
d. The curriculum map must cover all the program’s (major core and major elective) courses 
and all its learning outcomes. It must ensure that the program’s learning outcomes are dis-
tributed sequentially and coherently across the courses of the program. Students should 
thus be able to experience a gradual learning progress across all courses and learning out-
comes. 
e. Since the Foundation Program is an integral part of all undergraduate degree programs, its 
curriculum map serves as a starting point for the curriculum maps of all undergraduate pro-
grams. When developing the curriculum map of an undergraduate program, faculty must 
thus ensure that it is well aligned and integrated with the Foundation Program’s curriculum 
map. 
f. The same does not apply to the English for Academic and Professional Purposes (EAPP) 
Program. Since newly admitted undergraduate students only need to complete this program 
if their English level is insufficient, not all of them will attend (and fulfill the learning outcomes 
of) the EAPP Program. Yet, since those students exempt from the EAPP Program are so 
because of an adequate level of English acquired before enrolling at ADA University, faculty 
may (when developing the curriculum map of an undergraduate degree program) assume a 
level of English proficiency that is sufficient for all students attending classes of the respec-
tive program. Details on the EAPP Program (and on the level of English considered to be 
sufficient for enrollment in an undergraduate degree program) can be found in ADA Univer-
sity’s English for Academic and Professional Purposes Regulations. 
g. When developing a curriculum map for a dual degree program, faculty need to consider the 
learning outcomes covered in courses offered by the partner institution. This may again re-
quire to define relations of equivalence while identifying courses of the partner institution in 
which program learning outcomes are taught and assessed. 

6. Procedures and Requirements for the Course Level 
 
6.1 Course Learning Outcomes 
a. Once the curriculum map has been finalized, learning outcomes must be specified for each 
of the program’s courses. 
b. By drawing on the program’s curriculum map, course learning outcomes are based on and 
clearly relate to those defined for the program. 
c. Courses may incorporate learning outcomes beyond those defined for the program. This 
also means that not all course learning outcomes need to be reflected on the level of the 
program.


===== PAGE 6 =====
6 | P a g e 
d. When developing course learning outcomes throughout a program, faculty must find an ad-
equate balance between fundamental knowledge-related learning outcomes (that are re-
quired for the achievement of more advanced learning outcomes), and more advanced 
learning outcomes (that lead to the achievement of essential competencies). 
e. When developing learning outcomes for individual courses, and if appropriate, faculty may 
consider the 3 different domains of learning (cognitive, affective, psychomotor). 
f. Course learning outcomes must precisely address the context and subject matter of a 
course. They are thus more specific than program learning outcomes, which must cover the 
entire spectrum of a program. 
g. If based on a program learning outcome, course learning outcomes must precisely reflect 
the aspiration level envisaged in the program’s curriculum map. 
h. If based on a program learning outcome, course learning outcomes must preserve the basic 
structure of the corresponding program learning outcome. Most particularly, course learning 
outcomes may not change the verb (or verbs) given in program learning outcomes. The 
adjustment of the latter to the level of courses thus requires that the object (or objects) is 
(are) adapted to suit the context of the course and reflect its subject matter. On the introduc-
tory (and potentially developed) level of aspiration, however, course learning outcomes may 
omit higher-level verbs. 
i. When phrasing learning outcomes on the level of courses, and similar to the program-level, 
faculty are strongly recommended to keep learning outcomes short, avoid complicated sen-
tences, and keep the number of learning outcomes realistic and manageable. 
j. In the case of course learning outcomes that do not draw on those defined for the program, 
faculty are additionally strongly recommended to consult a revised version of Bloom’s Tax-
onomy. 
k. When developing course learning outcomes for dual degree programs, faculty may need to 
collaborate with faculty members of the partner institution. 
 
6.2 Assessment Criteria and Grade Descriptions 
a. Once course learning outcomes have been specified, assessment criteria must be defined 
for each of these learning outcomes. Assessment criteria must precisely reflect the respec-
tive learning outcome and be tailored towards its level. 
b. Grade descriptions must be defined for each assessment criterion and for different grade 
descriptors. Grade descriptions must clearly address the respective assessment criterion 
and specify the level of student achievement. 
c. Each time a course is being taught, grading rubrics must be developed for each graded 
assignment by the teacher of the course. They must clearly relate to and reflect the assess-
ment criteria and grade descriptions defined for the course. Grading rubrics must be detailed 
and precise and be made available to students ahead of assignments. 

7. Addendum: The School Level 
 
7.1 Requirements for School Missions 
a. Each School of ADA University must have a clear mission. Since a School’s mission is to 
cover all the degree programs taught at that School, it is by necessity more general in nature 
than program objectives. 
b. School missions are to be phrased in a coherent and well-structured manner. They are to 
be aligned with the University’s mission, and they need to reflect the core competencies set 
forth in the University’s Statement of Core Competencies. 
c. A School mission is thus a broad statement of the School’s purposes and of the most sig-
nificant competencies that its graduates are expected to acquire during their studies of any 
of the School’s (degree) programs.


===== PAGE 7 =====
7 | P a g e 
d. School missions must also provide further information relevant to students, the general pub-
lic, and other interested parties. This must at least include information on the School’s scope 
of program offerings, on School and/or program accreditation (if applicable), and on mem-
berships in (for example) associations (if applicable). 
 
7.2 Development and Modification of School Missions 
a. Responsibility for the development and modification of a School’s mission rests with all of 
that School’s (academic and administrative) members. 
b. The modification of a School’s mission may be initiated by any group of School members, 
by senior management members of ADA University, or by any decision-making body (such 
as the University Senate, Deans’ Council or Committee of Faculty Affairs) or an academic 
committee (such as the Quality Assurance Committee or the School’s Curriculum Commit-
tee) of the University. 
c. Proposals for a newly developed or modified School mission need the approval of (1) the 
majority of the School’s (academic and administrative) members, (2) the Committee of Fac-
ulty Affairs, (3) the Deans’ Council, and (4) the University Senate in order to become effec-
tive. If accepted by the Senate and approved by the Rector, the proposed modification 
comes into effect at the date determined by the Senate.
