=== PAGE 1 ===
ACADEMIC QUALITY ASSURANCE POLICY 

1. Purpose 
 
ADA University is committed to providing an environment of academic excellence to its students, 
faculty and staff. This presupposes regular, systematic and standardized processes of quality as-
sessment and enhancement that cover all matters related to education and research. The purpose 
of this policy is to establish such processes and to define general procedures for academic quality 
assurance at ADA University. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This policy applies to all areas relevant to education and research. It provides a general framework 
for the assessment and enhancement of the structures, processes and documents designated to 
achieve and improve quality and of their practical impact and outcomes and thus of the University’s 
offerings and performance. 
 
This policy is aligned with relevant international and national frameworks defining standards for ac-
ademic quality, including the Standards and Guidelines for Quality Assurance in the European 
Higher Education Area (ESG) of 2015, and the national Evaluation Criteria for Institutional Accredi-
tation of Higher Education Institutions (Ali təhsil müəssisəsinin institusional akkreditasiyası üzrə 
qiymətləndirmə meyarları). 
 
This policy should be read in conjunction with the University’s Quality Assurance Governance. 
 
Procedures and requirements for monitoring and reviewing degree programs are outlined in the 
University’s Degree Program Monitoring and Review Policy. 
 
Members of ADA University involved in the systematic process of quality assessment and enhance-
ment are expected to be thoroughly familiar with this policy and adhere to its procedures and re-
quirements. 

3. Definitions 
 
Quality is defined as the achievement of excellence. It allows the University to fulfill its purposes as 
an institution of higher education and research. 
 
Quality Assurance describes the regular and ongoing assessment (evaluation) and enhancement 
(improvement) of structures, processes and documents designated to achieve and improve quality 
as well as of their practical impact and outcomes. While Quality Assessment refers to the review of 
structures, processes and documents and of their impact and outcomes, the Enhancement of Quality 
covers the development and modification of such structures, processes and documents as well as 
their implementation and the corresponding achievement of the intended impact and outcomes. 
 
A Quality Review Cycle is a systematic and comprehensive process of quality assessment and en-
hancement that is completed within a predefined timeframe and that is regularly repeated. 
 
A Quality Standard is an established norm that outlines general criteria for excellence.

=== PAGE 2 ===
Quality Requirements are clearly specified criteria that must be met in order to achieve excellence. 

4. General Provisions 
 
4.1 Primary responsibility for the process of quality assurance at ADA University rests with the 
University’s Quality Assurance Committee, with School-level Curriculum and Quality Assurance 
Committees, and with the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation. For details on the 
University’s organizational structure of quality assurance, on the actors involved, and on their 
responsibilities, see the document Quality Assurance Governance. 
4.2 Quality assurance at ADA University shall incorporate an external perspective as outlined in 
the Quality Assurance Governance. 
4.3 Quality assurance at ADA University shall incorporate the perspective of students and ensure 
their active participation as outlined in the Quality Assurance Governance. 
4.4 Amendments to this policy may be proposed by any member of the University’s Quality Assur-
ance Committee, by senior management members, by any (academic or administrative) unit, 
or by any decision-making body (such as the University Senate, Deans’ Council or Committee 
of Faculty Affairs), or academic committee (such as a Curriculum and Quality Assurance Com-
mittee) of the University. Proposers are required to seek feedback from the Office of Quality 
Assurance and Accreditation before submitting their final proposal to the Quality Assurance 
Committee. Amendments need the approval of (1) the Quality Assurance Committee, (2) the 
Committee of Faculty Affairs, (3) the Deans’ Council, and (4) the University Senate in order to 
become effective. If accepted by the Senate and approved by the Rector, the amended policy 
comes into effect at the date determined by the Senate. 

5. Quality Review Cycle and Quality Assurance Procedures 
 
5.1 Quality assurance at ADA University is based on a 5-year quality review cycle, with the current 
cycle covering the academic years 2024/25 to 2029/30. 
5.2 During this period of 5 years, all relevant structures, processes and documents designated to 
achieve and improve quality in the areas covered by the University’s Academic Quality Assur-
ance Standards and Guidelines and by other relevant manuals, their practical impact and out-
comes, and the University’s offerings and performance in these areas shall be assessed at 
least once and as often as required and deemed necessary. 
5.3 The process of quality assessment and enhancement shall include a regular review of the com-
position of the Academic Quality Assurance Standards and Guidelines and other relevant man-
uals. 
5.4 The process of quality assessment and enhancement shall comprehensively incorporate the 
quality requirements outlined for the following areas and be based on an assessment plan de-
veloped by the University’s Quality Assurance Committee. 
5.5 It is strongly recommended that the University’s offerings and performance in major areas of 
education and research are evaluated on at least an annual basis. 
5.6 The assessment and potential enhancement of the University’s structures and processes of 
quality assurance are regulated in chapter 8 of its Quality Assurance Governance. 

6. Internal and External Quality Assurance 
 
6.1 This area of the current policy provides requirements that need to be met by ADA University’s 
framework for internal quality assurance as well as requirements for external quality assurance.

=== PAGE 3 ===
6.2 Quality Standards: 
a. Quality assurance at ADA University serves its mission and vision. The University has a 
comprehensive quality assurance policy that aligns with its strategic plan and goals. This 
policy provides clear guidance to the assessment and enhancement of the University’s of-
ferings and performance. An effective system of quality assurance governance is in place 
that involves all relevant stakeholders. 
b. ADA University regularly undergoes external quality assurance at the institutional and pro-
gram level. This involves accreditation by the national Təhsildə Keyfiyyət Təminatı Agentliyi 
(The Agency for Quality Assurance in Education) and international accrediting agencies. 
6.3 Internal Quality Assurance: 
a. The document Academic Quality and ADA University’s Mission and Vision firmly anchors 
academic quality in the University’s mission and vision. The University’s concepts of quality 
and quality assurance are adequate to promote academic excellence. Quality assurance 
works towards the realization of the University’s mission and vision and the achievement of 
such excellence. 
b. The principles outlined in the University’s Statement of Academic Principles adequately re-
flect its mission, vision and core values. They particularly serve to foster a non-discriminatory 
environment of academic excellence, integrity and freedom, and they are comprehensively 
implemented throughout the University and its Schools and administrative units. 
c. The University’s Academic Quality Assurance Policy covers all areas relevant to education 
and research. It makes appropriate and effective provisions for the assessment and en-
hancement of the structures, processes and documents designated to achieve and improve 
quality, of their impact and outcomes, and thus of the University’s offerings and perfor-
mance. It is aligned with the University’s strategic plan and goals and with relevant interna-
tional and national frameworks defining standards for academic quality. 
d. The University’s Quality Assurance Governance outlines an effective system of quality as-
surance that involves relevant stakeholders, including members of senior management, fac-
ulty, students and external actors. The responsibilities of key actors are sufficiently defined. 
e. The Academic Quality Assurance Policy and Quality Assurance Governance are compre-
hensively implemented. This applies in particular to the ongoing application of the quality 
requirements outlined in this policy and to the wide and active involvement of relevant stake-
holders in quality assurance at the institutional, School and program level. The 2 documents 
are regularly reviewed by the University’s Quality Assurance Committee, and they are pub-
lished on the University’s website. 
f. The University’s Document Development and Modification Regulations and the Document 
Format and Control Regulations outline appropriate procedures and requirements for the 
development, modification, implementation and publication of documents designated to 
achieve and improve quality as well as for their format and control. The 2 documents are 
comprehensively implemented throughout the University. 
g. The Academic Quality Assurance Standards and Guidelines and other relevant manuals 
(such as the Faculty Handbook) are adequate in scope. They cover all relevant areas and 
include all documents required to provide a comprehensive framework for quality assurance 
and for quality in education and research. 
6.4 External Quality Assurance: 
a. The University participates in national institutional (re-)accreditation based on the 5-year 
accreditation cycle required for institutions of higher education by the Ministry of Science 
and Education of the Republic of Azerbaijan. It completes each cycle with the highest pos-
sible score. The recommendations for improvement received from the Təhsildə Keyfiyyət 
Təminatı Agentliyi (TKTA) are reflected in an improvement plan that is continuously and 
systematically implemented. They feed into the University’s activities and the ongoing pro-
cess of internal quality assurance. The University annually reports to TKTA on the progress 
made in terms of improvements and the implementation of recommendations. This progress

=== PAGE 4 ===
is taken into consideration when preparing for the following process of institutional (re-)ac-
creditation. 
b. The University systematically works towards fulfilling the standards and requirements de-
fined by the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA) for its International Qual-
ity Review (IQR). 
c. The University’s degree programs participate in cyclical national (re-)accreditation if required 
by the Ministry of Science and Education. Where appropriate, they work towards accredita-
tion by a renowned international accrediting agency. 
6.5 The University regularly informs its employees and students of its quality assurance system 
and the results of the ongoing processes of internal and external quality assurance. It gathers 
feedback from these actors to test their understanding of quality assurance structures, pro-
cesses and outcomes. 

7. Academic Program 
 
7.1 The area Academic Program comprises all matters related to ADA University’s educational of-
ferings. It covers the development, assessment, improvement and approval of degree pro-
grams, curricula and courses; the University’s Foundation Program and its English language 
program; core competencies and learning outcomes; credit and degree regulations; as well as 
regulations ensuring the integrity of the University’s degrees. 
7.2 Quality Standards: 
a. ADA University has formal processes for the development and approval of degree programs. 
Its programs meet their objectives and allow students to achieve intended learning outcomes 
and acquire the University’s core competencies. Learning outcomes, objectives and com-
petencies as well as qualifications resulting from a program are clearly specified and com-
municated. Qualifications are adequate to the level of a program. 
b. ADA University’s degree programs are regularly monitored and periodically reviewed to en-
sure that they are of appropriate quality, achieve their objectives, and meet the needs of 
students and the society. Program monitoring and review lead to the continuous improve-
ment of programs. Changes made to a program as a result of program monitoring and re-
view are communicated to all those concerned. 
7.3 Design and Approval of Programs: 
a. The University’s Degree Program Development and Modification Policy provides adequate 
and systematic procedures and requirements for the development, modification and ap-
proval of programs. It involves all relevant stakeholders (including faculty, students, external 
actors, as well as advisory and decision-making bodies) and clearly specifies essential na-
tional and international points of reference against which programs need to be mapped. The 
policy’s procedures and requirements are comprehensively implemented whenever a pro-
gram is developed, modified or approved. 
b. When developing or modifying a program and/or courses, the University’s Curriculum and 
Course Development Policy and its Core Competence and Learning Outcome Specification 
Policy are comprehensively implemented. Both policies delineate appropriate and system-
atic approaches to the development and modification of curricula and courses and to the 
specification of competencies, learning outcomes, assessment criteria and grade descrip-
tions at the program and/or course level. 
c. The competencies outlined in the University’s Statement of Core Competencies align with 
its mission, vision and strategic goals. They clearly address the needs of students, society, 
and the labor market, and they are up to date and serve the personal, academic and pro-
fessional development of students. Core competencies are comprehensively covered by all 
degree programs.

=== PAGE 5 ===
d. The University’s Foundation Program and its English for Academic and Professional Pur-
poses (EAPP) Program are systematically structured. The subjects covered by the Founda-
tion Program serve to prepare undergraduate students for the further study of their degree 
programs, and the Foundation Program is well integrated into these programs. The design 
of the EAPP Program takes into account relevant frameworks for English language teaching 
and learning. The program has a successful record of training undergraduate students and 
preparing them for the study of their degree programs. The University’s Foundation Program 
Regulations and its English for Academic and Professional Purposes Regulations thus de-
lineate requirements that adequately meet the needs of students. 
e. The University’s Curriculum Structure and Regulations, Undergraduate Degree Regulations, 
and Graduate Degree Regulations detail clear, comprehensive and adequate requirements 
for the structure of the University’s programs and for the successful completion of a degree. 
All 3 documents are comprehensively implemented throughout all the University’s programs. 
As a result, all programs are coherently structured and designed to allow for an integrated 
learning experience. 
f. The credit system outlined in the University’s Credit Regulations is based on the European 
Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS) and translatable into the credit system 
used in the U.S. system of higher education. The Credit Regulations outline clear, detailed 
and appropriate requirements for the awarding of credits, allowing students to fully benefit 
from international collaborations and exchange opportunities while ensuring a high level of 
the University’s degrees. The University’s Degree Audit and Certification Regulations pro-
vide clear and adequate requirements for the regular, comprehensive and rigorous evalua-
tion of student progress. Together with the Credit Regulations, they are designed to ensure 
the integrity of the University’s degrees. Both documents are comprehensively implemented 
throughout the University and its programs, and there is conclusive evidence that credits 
and degrees are awarded only to students who fully and at least satisfactorily meet the re-
quirements set by the University. 
g. All newly developed or modified programs went through the formal advisory and approval 
processes outlined in the University’s Degree Program Development and Modification Pol-
icy. These advisory and approval processes included all relevant actors and decision-mak-
ing bodies mentioned in the policy. 
h. All programs at ADA University are approved by the Ministry of Science and Education and 
the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Azerbaijan if needed and are accredited by the 
national Təhsildə Keyfiyyət Təminatı Agentliyi (The Agency for Quality Assurance in Educa-
tion) if required. 
i. All programs and their relevant components and requirements are made available to stu-
dents, faculty and other stakeholders via the University’s website, program descriptions and 
course syllabi, and/or the Academic Catalogue as appropriate. 
j. All programs at ADA University have clear program objectives that align with the University’s 
core competencies as well as (both at the program and course level) explicit learning out-
comes that match these competencies and the program’s objectives. Qualifications resulting 
from a program refer to the appropriate level of the Qualifications Framework for the Euro-
pean Higher Education Area (QF-EHEA) revised in 2018, and the National Qualifications 
Framework for Lifelong Learning of the Republic of Azerbaijan (Azərbaycan Respublikasının 
Ömürboyu Təhsil üzrə Milli Kvalifikasiya Çərçivəsi). 
k. All programs reflect the four purposes of education defined by the Council of Europe in Ed-
ucation at the Council of Europe. They correspond to the frameworks defining standards for 
the academic quality of programs, namely the Standards and Guidelines for Quality Assur-
ance in the European Higher Education Area (ESG) of 2015, and the national Evaluation 
Criteria for Institutional Accreditation of Higher Education Institutions (Ali təhsil 
müəssisəsinin institusional akkreditasiyası üzrə qiymətləndirmə meyarları) as defined in cri-
terion 3 “Teaching and Learning” (“Təlim və Tədris”).

=== PAGE 6 ===
l. All programs clearly specify the credits awarded for the completion of a program and its 
individual courses. 
m. All programs are designed based on an integrated and coherent course structure that allows 
for a gradual learning experience and smooth student progression. 
n. All programs include well-integrated placement opportunities (where appropriate) during 
which students can gain relevant professional experience in an area related to their studies. 
o. All courses at the University are based on a well-aligned structure, which particularly inte-
grates learning outcomes, teaching and learning, and assessment. Course learning out-
comes are aligned with program learning outcomes for all courses and programs. 
p. All programs and courses offered in the online or blended format have program objectives 
and/or intended learning outcomes that are attainable in the respective format. 
q. Programs at ADA University meet their objectives. Students are able to acquire relevant 
learning outcomes, competencies and qualifications. Student performance and program ef-
fectiveness meet the standards set by the University. 
r. All programs (and their individual components) are of continuing relevance by serving the 
needs of students, society, and the labor market. They particularly provide students with 
essential competencies relevant to their personal development and future professional ca-
reers. 
7.4 Monitoring and Review of Programs: 
a. The University’s Degree Program Monitoring and Review Policy outlines systematic and 
comprehensive procedures and requirements for program monitoring and review. These 
procedures and requirements provide appropriate and effective guidance for the improve-
ment of programs and their components. They reflect the standards and guidelines specified 
by the ESG, and they involve relevant stakeholders, including faculty, students, external 
actors, as well as advisory and decision-making bodies. The policy is comprehensively im-
plemented throughout all the University’s programs. 
b. The University’s Self-Study Report Template adequately specifies the requirements outlined 
in the Degree Program Monitoring and Review Policy. The template provides clear and com-
prehensive guidance to program reviewers that is easy to follow. 
c. All the University’s programs (and their individual components) are continuously monitored 
and periodically reviewed. Relevant stakeholders are involved as outlined in the policy men-
tioned above. 
d. The results from program monitoring and review are systematically and comprehensively 
used for the improvement of programs. 
e. Improvements leading to the modification of program specifications are approved according 
to the procedures outlined in chapter 5 of the University’s Degree Program Development 
and Modification Policy. 
f. Revised program specifications are made available to (current and prospective) students, 
faculty and other stakeholders via the University’s website, updated program descriptions 
and course syllabi, and/or the Academic Catalogue as appropriate. 
g. Relevant program monitoring and review activities, their outcomes, improvement plans and 
major steps undertaken to further improve a program, as well as implemented program im-
provements are sufficiently documented for each program. 
7.5 There is substantial evidence that the University’s mechanisms for the development, assess-
ment, improvement and approval of programs are effective. 
7.6 Each School regularly gathers feedback from students and faculty on the quality of its programs 
and courses and on their involvement in the development, assessment, improvement and ap-
proval of programs. It is recommended that Schools use various means to gain student and 
faculty input, including at least one annual meeting with students. Schools act upon this feed-
back and make suggestions to the Quality Assurance Committee for improvements in terms of 
student and faculty involvement (if applicable).

=== PAGE 7 ===
8. Teaching, Learning and Assessment 
 
8.1 The area Teaching, Learning and Assessment provides the University’s educational framework. 
It offers guidance to teaching and learning in the face-to-face, blended and online modes as 
well as rules and procedures for the assessment of learning. 
8.2 Quality Standard: Education at ADA University is student-centered and incorporates innovative 
practices. Courses are delivered in a manner that encourages students to play an active role in 
the learning process. Teaching, learning and assessment are aligned. They are based on 
clearly stated learning outcomes and allow students to develop and achieve these learning 
outcomes as well as program objectives and the University’s core competencies. 
8.3 The principles defined in the University’s Statement on Teaching and Learning reflect best prac-
tices in teaching and learning. They are appropriately implemented throughout all programs 
and courses. 
8.4 The University’s Student Assessment Regulations provide a well-structured, comprehensive 
and transparent framework for the evaluation of student performance. Their provisions ade-
quately address the University’s needs and are designed to protect the integrity of the exami-
nation process. They are appropriately implemented throughout all programs and courses, and 
assessment in courses is consistent with the rules and procedures outlined in this document. 
8.5 The University’s Online Education and Assessment Regulations provide well-structured, com-
prehensive and intelligible guidance to students and teachers. They are well integrated with the 
University’s Statement on Teaching and Learning and its Student Assessment Regulations. 
They reflect best practices in online education and assessment, and they are comprehensively 
implemented in all remote examinations and in all courses delivered in the online or blended 
format. 
8.6 The University’s Student Academic Grievance Policy and Procedures outline easy-to-follow 
guidance for the submission of student complaints and appeals, and they provide appropriate 
procedures for dealing with such complaints and appeals. All complaints and appeals received 
by the University are investigated and (if required) resolved in a fair and timely manner. 
8.7 Teaching, learning and assessment are regularly evaluated throughout all the University’s pro-
grams. Evaluations are based on and correspond to the requirements outlined in this chapter, 
in the documents mentioned above and in the Faculty Handbook, and they include feedback 
gathered from students and faculty. The evaluation of teaching, learning and assessment in 
courses offered in the online or blended format involves one of the University’s Blackboard 
DTLS Accredited Facilitators. The teaching, learning and assessment methods used in courses 
are effective. 
8.8 The results of student learning and assessment are regularly evaluated throughout all the Uni-
versity’s programs. Evaluations are based on the requirements outlined in the Data Manage-
ment and Reporting Regulations, and the outcomes of these evaluations reflect the standards 
set by the University. 
8.9 Any shortcomings identified in the teaching, learning and assessment process are adequately 
addressed by Schools and programs. 
8.10 Teaching, learning and assessment across the University are student-centered. They provide 
students with opportunities to engage actively and to their full potential in the learning process 
while being appropriately guided by the teacher. A variety of assessment methods are used, 
and examinations are conducted in an inclusive and equitable manner. 
8.11 Teaching, learning and assessment are based on explicitly stated learning outcomes that are 
adequate to the level of students and to the teaching and learning mode. Learning outcomes, 
teaching and learning activities, and assessment methods are aligned in courses. They match 
program objectives and program learning outcomes. 
8.12 Teaching, learning and assessment involve innovative practices across the University and its 
programs and courses. Teachers are generally familiar with existing and relevant teaching, 
learning and assessment methods.

=== PAGE 8 ===
8.13 All courses delivered at the University employ innovative technology where appropriate. This 
applies to courses offered in the blended or online mode in particular. 
8.14 Assessment tasks are conducted in a manner that prevents violations of the principle of aca-
demic integrity (as far as is possible). Any violations of this principle that may have occurred 
are adequately investigated and sanctioned according to the University’s Honor Code. 
8.15 All Schools and programs have effective structures and processes for the evaluation of student 
performance and for dealing with student complaints related to the evaluation of their perfor-
mance in assessment tasks. 
8.16 Students are provided with clear information on their courses. This includes information on the 
learning opportunities and support available to them. 
8.17 Students and teachers are equipped with the knowledge and skills required to use Blackboard 
Learn and other digital tools employed for teaching, learning and assessment. The University’s 
Blackboard Administrator and the Office of IT and Information Services have a successful rec-
ord of providing technical support to students and teachers and of resolving technical issues 
related to Blackboard Learn and other digital tools. 

9. Research 
 
9.1 The area Research provides a quality framework for conducting and promoting research at 
ADA University. 
9.2 Quality Standard: ADA University provides an environment in which excellence and good prac-
tice in research are encouraged. Research at the University is innovative and serves both to 
advance knowledge within relevant academic disciplines and to enhance teaching and learning. 
It is based on the free pursuit of knowledge and guided by high ethical standards. 
9.3 The principles defined in ADA University’s Statement on Research outline essential and rele-
vant requirements for good practice in academic research, and they are reflected in the re-
search activities conducted at the University. 
9.4 The University’s Faculty Research and Development Fund and Regulations provide a substan-
tial program that is appropriate, well designed, and sufficiently endowed with financial resources 
to support the research activities and professional development of its faculty. 
9.5 The University’s Research Reward Program and Regulations provide a substantial reward 
mechanism that is appropriate, well designed, and sufficiently endowed with financial resources 
to fulfill its purpose of rewarding publications of high quality. 
9.6 The University’s Faculty Research and Development Fund and Regulations and its Research 
Reward Program and Regulations are comprehensively implemented. Its Faculty Research and 
Development Fund and its Research Reward Program are regularly applied for by faculty. Their 
financial resources are utilized to the extent and for the purposes envisaged, and they serve as 
effective mechanisms to foster high quality research at the University. 
9.7 In addition to its funding and reward programs, the University supports the research activities 
of its faculty by (for instance) offering trainings, advice on legal and ethical matters, and guid-
ance on publication opportunities and procedures. There is conclusive evidence that these 
mechanisms are effective and serve to further develop the research capabilities of the Univer-
sity’s faculty and improve the amount and quality of their research output. 
9.8 Faculty members from all Schools and programs are regularly engaged in research. They are 
allocated sufficient time to do so. 
9.9 The amount of the University’s research output is substantial and adequate to the number of its 
faculty. 
9.10 The University’s research output is of high quality. It is predominantly published with recognized 
publishers and/or indexed academic journals, and it contributes both to the advancement of 
knowledge and to the promotion of the University’s reputation. 
9.11 Research and scholarly activities inform teaching practice at the University.

=== PAGE 9 ===
9.12 No mechanism provided by the University that serves to encourage and support faculty in doing 
research restricts their free pursuit of knowledge. 
9.13 No faculty member of the University violates the principle of academic integrity. All potential 
violations of this principle are investigated and (if verified) adequately sanctioned. 

10. Students and Student Support 
 
10.1 The area Students and Student Support provides a qualify framework for the recruitment, ad-
mission, enrollment, progression, retention, recognition and certification of students, as well for 
the University’s student support services and its learning resources. 
10.2 Quality Standards: 
a. ADA University has formal processes and requirements for each stage of a student’s career, 
ranging from recruitment and admission to certification. These processes and requirements 
are consistently implemented. They are effective and support the University in the achieve-
ment of its objectives. 
b. ADA University provides a wide range of support services and learning resources to its stu-
dents. These services and resources are available to all students and effectively support 
their personal, academic and professional development. 
10.3 Student Recruitment and Admission: 
a. The Student Recruitment and Admission Regulations provide clear and effective guidelines 
for the promotion of the University’s programs and its student recruitment activities. It out-
lines comprehensive, appropriate and fair admission requirements and procedures for the 
selection and admission of students, covering all possible admission routes for the Univer-
sity’s undergraduate and graduate degree programs and for both Azerbaijani and interna-
tional applicants. The document also provides clear information on different models of finan-
cial support to accommodate for the needs of students from diverse backgrounds. 
b. The document mentioned above is implemented consistently, and there is clear evidence 
that the University selects and admits students in a transparent and non-discriminatory man-
ner and solely based on their potential to succeed in the program for which they are applying. 
c. The University’s staff members responsible for the recruitment, selection and admission of 
students are adequately qualified for their roles. They have a clear understanding of their 
responsibilities and of the recruitment process and the selection and admission require-
ments, and they consistently follow these requirements. 
d. There is documented evidence that applicants were provided with the assistance they 
needed during the application process. 
e. There is clear evidence that the entry qualifications of all applicants are verified before a 
decision on their admission or rejection is being made. 
f. There are appropriate mechanisms in place for applicants to appeal their rejection. There is 
clear evidence that all appeals were treated in a fair and transparent manner. 
g. All information related to the University’s degree programs and admission requirements is 
publicly available. 
h. The University’s promotional and recruitment activities are effective without being mislead-
ing. There are clear indications that they support the University in attracting talented stu-
dents who are successful (and even excel) in their studies. 
i. The University has a track record of admitting students who perform highly in their studies 
and successfully complete their degree programs. 
10.4 Student Enrollment and Course Registration: 
a. The University’s Student Enrollment Status Regulations provide clear rules for a student’s 
enrollment status at ADA University, covering degree and non-degree as well as full-time 
and part-time requirements. They sufficiently specify the conditions under which students 
may take an overload.

=== PAGE 10 ===
b. The requirements outlined in the document mentioned above are appropriate and provide a 
framework that successfully guides students towards the completion of their studies and 
degree programs. 
c. The University’s current Academic Catalogue outlines clear and transparent procedures for 
the course registration of students. They are easy to follow, and there is documented evi-
dence that students receive the support they need when registering for, adding, dropping, 
or withdrawing from courses. 
10.5 Student Progression and Retention: 
a. The University’s Degree Audit and Certification Regulations and its Student Retention Policy 
outline systematic, comprehensive and effective procedures and requirements for monitor-
ing and assessing student progress and for providing support to students during their studies 
and on their way to graduation. They provide appropriate mechanisms for the induction of 
students to the University, and they include learning opportunities that foster the students’ 
academic, personal and professional development. 
b. The two documents mentioned above outline mechanisms that allow students to monitor 
their own academic performance and progress towards degree completion. Students are 
furthermore provided with systematic and effective opportunities to regularly request feed-
back and support from qualified staff members of the University. 
c. The two documents mentioned above are systematically implemented throughout the Uni-
versity and its programs. 
d. The University systematically gathers and analyzes data and information on the perfor-
mance and progression of its students (for details, see its Data Management and Reporting 
Regulations). It regularly and adequately acts upon this data and information. 
e. The University’s student support staff are adequately qualified for their roles, and they have 
a successful record of supporting students in their progress towards degree completion. 
f. The University has a successful record of retaining students, and both the retention and the 
graduation rate achieve or exceed the targets set by the University. These targets are chal-
lenging but achievable. 
10.6 Student Recognition and Certification: 
a. The University’s Credit Regulations and its current Credit Transfer Manual provide coherent, 
transparent and fair procedures and requirements for the recognition of credits and qualifi-
cations awarded by other institutions of higher education prior to or (as part of an exchange 
program) during enrollment at ADA University. The Credit Regulations and the Student Re-
cruitment and Admission Regulations make adequate allowance for the recognition of non-
formal and informal prior learning experiences where appropriate. For the awarding of in-
residence credits, see chapter 7.3.f above. 
b. The University’s procedures, requirements and practices for the recognition of credits and 
qualifications are aligned with the Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications concern-
ing Higher Education in the European Region of 1997. They correspond to the standards 
set by the University for its degree programs while adequately reflecting the level and scope 
of the respective credits and qualifications (and of non-formal or informal prior learning ex-
periences). 
c. The University’s procedures and requirements for the recognition of credits, qualifications 
and prior learning experiences are published on its website and are thus publicly available. 
They are systematically implemented. 
d. Decisions on the recognition of credits, qualifications and prior learning experiences are 
made (and communicated to students) in a timely manner. There are appropriate mecha-
nisms in place for students to appeal a decision. There is clear evidence that all appeals 
were treated in a fair and transparent manner. 
e. Requirements for the certification of students are clearly outlined in the University’s Degree 
Audit and Certification Regulations.

=== PAGE 11 ===
f. All students of the University who successfully completed all the requirements of their re-
spective degree program are informed of the completion of the program. They receive a 
degree certificate (diploma) issued by the Ministry of Science and Education of the Republic 
of Azerbaijan. They also receive a transcript of records from the University that details all 
attended courses and grades received. 
10.7 Student Support and Learning Resources: 
a. The University’s Student Support and Service Policy systematically outlines the student sup-
port services and learning resources required to assist students in their personal, academic 
and professional development while considering and addressing the needs of different stu-
dents (including national and international, full-time, part-time, and employed students, as 
well as those with disabilities). It provides clearly structured and comprehensive procedures 
and requirements for the regular review and further development of these services and re-
sources, and it explicitly allocates these responsibilities to relevant actors and stakeholders 
of the University. 
b. The document mentioned above is comprehensively implemented, and there is clear evi-
dence that the University’s student support services and learning resources are adequate, 
sufficient and effective. They include a structured system of academic and career support, 
ample opportunities to participate in exchange programs and to gain practical professional 
experience, as well as sufficient (physical and digital) library resources, up-to-date IT ser-
vices, and appropriate study facilities. These support services and learning resources allow 
students to develop their personal, academic and professional potential and provide oppor-
tunities for flexible and self-guided learning, and they are sufficiently endowed with financial 
resources to fulfill their purposes. 
c. The University provides students with clear and comprehensive information on available 
support services and learning resources. 
d. The services and resources mentioned above are reliable and easily accessible to all stu-
dents. 
e. Relevant units of the University (such as ADA Library, the Office of Admissions and Student 
Records, its Student Academic Support Services, the Office of Global Outreach and Part-
ners, and its Career Services and Alumni Affairs) have a sufficient number of qualified advi-
sors and counsellors and a successful record of providing assistance and advice to students. 
f. The University has effective mechanisms for the evaluation of its student support staff, using 
criteria that include, as a minimum, professional qualifications, evaluation interviews and 
self-assessment, advisory notes and correspondence (where applicable), and student feed-
back. It provides professional support and training to its student support staff, and there is 
clear evidence that these trainings are effective and improve the qualifications of participat-
ing staff members. 
10.8 There are effective mechanisms in place to gather input from students, staff, faculty and exter-
nal stakeholders on the University’s student support services and learning resources, and on 
its approach to student recruitment, admission, progression and retention. These include at 
least one annual meeting with student representatives and a special survey for international 
students to determine their needs and improve the University’s attractiveness to this student 
group. The University uses the insights gained for further improvements, where appropriate. 

11. Faculty and Staff 
 
11.1 The area Faculty and Staff provides a framework for the recruitment, evaluation, and ongoing 
professional development of faculty and supporting staff members. 
11.2 Quality Standard: ADA University has a sufficient number of adequately qualified faculty and 
supporting staff members for all its programs. The recruitment of faculty and supporting staff is

=== PAGE 12 ===
based on fair and transparent procedures, and there are effective mechanisms for the regular 
evaluation and continuous professional development of both faculty and staff members. 
11.3 Recruitment of Teachers and Supporting Staff: 
a. The University’s strategic plan includes clear goals and mechanisms for the recruitment of 
a sufficient number of adequately qualified teachers. 
b. The goals referred to above are achieved, and the University has a sufficient number of 
adequately qualified teachers for all its programs (including international faculty members 
where possible). 
c. The University has clear, transparent and fair procedures for the recruitment, selection and 
(re-)appointment of faculty and supporting staff. 
d. The procedures mentioned above are systematically implemented, and there is clear evi-
dence that they significantly support the University in acquiring well-qualified teachers and 
supporting staff. 
e. There is clear evidence that the University provides employment conditions that are com-
petitive and attractive to well-qualified teachers and supporting staff. This includes, for in-
stance, compensation packages, facilities and workplaces, as well as professional support 
and development opportunities. 
f. The University has clear, transparent and fair procedures for the promotion of faculty and 
supporting staff. These procedures are systematically implemented throughout the Univer-
sity. 
g. The University has a track record of retaining well-qualified teachers. 
h. There are effective mechanisms in place to gather input from faculty and students on the 
number and qualifications of teachers for each of the University’s programs. The insights 
gained feed into the University’s recruitment plans and procedures (where appropriate), and 
they inform the professional development of teachers. 
11.4 Faculty and Staff Evaluation: 
a. The University’s Faculty Handbook provides clear, systematic and effective procedures and 
requirements for the performance evaluation of teachers. They involve key stakeholders, 
establish reasonable evaluation intervals, and are based on a combination of meaningful 
criteria that include, as a minimum, teacher portfolios, teaching observations and peer eval-
uations, and student performance and feedback. 
b. The University has similar mechanisms for the evaluation of Academic Advisors, using cri-
teria that include, as a minimum, professional qualifications, evaluation interviews and self-
assessment, advisory notes and correspondence, and student feedback. 
c. The procedures and requirements referred to above are regularly and comprehensively im-
plemented throughout all the University’s Schools and programs. 
d. The results of performance evaluations feed into the continuous improvement of teachers 
and Academic Advisors. 
e. All teachers at the University are adequately qualified for their roles. They are trained in 
modern pedagogical methods and regularly employ them in their teaching. This includes the 
appropriate and innovative use of learning technology. Teachers have a suitable record of 
supporting and advising students. 
f. Academic Advisors are adequately qualified for their roles, and they have a successful rec-
ord of providing assistance and advice to the students under their tutelage. 
g. The University has clear procedures for the development of projections for faculty members 
in terms of their teaching load, research activities, and further functions to be fulfilled in 
service to the University. The corresponding performance of faculty is systematically as-
sessed at the end of each academic year (for details, see the University’s Data Management 
and Reporting Regulations), and the results of these assessments feed into the overall eval-
uation of teachers.

=== PAGE 13 ===
11.5 Faculty and Staff Development and Support: 
a. The University has mechanisms that effectively encourage faculty to be innovative in their 
teaching (including using new technologies when appropriate) and to be actively engaged 
in research. 
b. There is clear evidence that teachers use innovative teaching methods and technology and 
that their teaching is informed by research and the latest developments in their fields. 
c. The University has a well-structured program that supports the continuous professional de-
velopment of its teachers and Academic Advisors. For the University’s Faculty Research 
and Development Fund and Regulations that is part of this program, see chapter 9 above. 
d. This professional development program is actively promoted, systematically implemented, 
and open to all the University’s teachers and Academic Advisors. It covers current and rel-
evant topics, is sufficient in breadth, and has a successful record of improving the pedagog-
ical capabilities of teachers and the professional qualifications of Academic Advisors. 
e. All teachers and Academic Advisors participate in the professional development program at 
reasonable intervals. 
f. In addition to the training program mentioned above, the University offers an effective induc-
tion program for newly hired teachers. It furthermore provides specific professional support 
and training to part-time faculty. These mechanisms are effective, and both newly hired and 
part-time teachers are sufficiently qualified for their roles at ADA University. 
g. The University regularly gathers input from faculty and Academic Advisors to identify their 
training and support needs. It uses the information received to further improve its training 
and support offerings. 

12. Equity and Transparency 
 
12.1 The area Equity and Transparency provides a framework for inclusiveness and non-discrimi-
nation, the handling of personal data, and the effective and transparent information of internal 
and external stakeholders. This includes procedures for the achievement of equity and diversity 
and the prevention of discrimination; requirements for the usage and protection of personal 
data; as well as regulations for the management and processing of such data. 
12.2 Quality Standards: 
a. ADA University provides a welcoming, supportive and integrative environment in which no 
one is discriminated against and in which everyone is able to develop and contribute to their 
full potential. 
b. The University has effective mechanisms for the collection, storage, processing and safe-
guarding of personal data. It uses this data and other information to enhance its performance 
and the quality of its offerings. The University regularly provides accurate, meaningful and 
easily accessible information to relevant stakeholders, including the general public. 
12.3 Equity, Diversity and Non-Discrimination: 
a. The University’s Equity, Diversity and Non-Discrimination Policy complies with international 
best practices and with relevant legal regulations of the Republic of Azerbaijan. It provides 
adequate and effective mechanisms for the promotion of inclusiveness and the prevention 
of discrimination and harassment. 
b. The policy mentioned above is comprehensively implemented. 
c. The University has a successful record of preventing discrimination and harassment, of pro-
moting diversity, and of offering additional opportunities to those in need of special support. 
Its working environment is inclusive and family-friendly. 
d. All known cases of discrimination and harassment that may have occurred are adequately 
addressed and resolved at the University. Appropriate measures were taken to prevent fur-
ther such instances (as far as is possible).

=== PAGE 14 ===
e. The University regularly and systematically gathers anonymized information on the state of 
equity, diversity and non-discrimination at the University and acts upon this information. 
f. The University’s Anti-Discrimination Officer is effective in the fulfillment of his/her responsi-
bilities. These include annual reporting to the Quality Assurance Committee. 
12.4 Personal Data Usage and Public Information: 
a. The University’s Personal Data Usage and Public Information Policy complies with relevant 
legal regulations of the Republic of Azerbaijan and reflects essential requirements of the 
European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). It provides adequate and effective 
mechanisms for the protection, usage and disclosure of personal data. 
b. The policy mentioned above is comprehensively implemented. 
c. The University has a successful record of preventing data breaches and violations of data 
privacy. 
d. All known data breaches or violations of data privacy that may have occurred at the Univer-
sity and all known data-related complaints are adequately addressed and resolved. Appro-
priate measures were taken to prevent further such instances (as far as is possible). 
e. The University’s provides accurate, meaningful, comprehensive and easily accessible data 
and information on its offerings, activities and performance to current and prospective stu-
dents, the general public, and other interested groups via its website, social media channels, 
Academic Catalogue, and printed materials 
f. The disclosure of data and information to internal and external parties complies with relevant 
legal and ethical requirements. 
g. The University regularly and systematically gathers feedback from students, faculty and staff 
on the usefulness and accessibility of information provided by the University as outlined 
above, and it acts upon this feedback. 
h. The University’s Data Protection Officer is effective in the fulfillment of his/her responsibili-
ties. These include an annual report to the Quality Assurance Committee, which shall pro-
vide information on the state of data protection, usage and disclosure at the University. The 
University acts upon this information and upon potential deficits. 
12.5 Data Management and Reporting: 
a. The University’s Data Management and Reporting Regulations comply with international 
best practices and with relevant legal regulations of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The docu-
ment delineates effective and efficient provisions for the collection, storage and usage of 
data. 
b. The document mentioned above is comprehensively implemented. 
c. The University has a successful record of collecting and analyzing data and information used 
for the purposes of decision-making in general and of assessing and enhancing its offerings 
and performance in particular. The data and information are available in a timely manner 
and are adequate, complete, valid and current. 
d. The reports used for the purposes of decision-making and quality assurance are compre-
hensive, current, intelligible and meaningful. 
e. The University has a successful record of using data, information and reports systematically 
and effectively to make decisions and to evaluate and improve the University’s offerings and 
performance. 
f. The University acts upon any shortcomings in terms of the data, information and reports 
required for the purposes mentioned above.