

===== PAGE 1 =====
NO. 4280 SCHOLARSHIP FOR THE ANIMAL SCIENCES 
DEGREE PROGRAM 
 
4281. Scholarship for the Animal Sciences Degree Program ..................................................... 2 

No. 4280 
 V2.0 Rev.1 
Effective Date: September 19, 2025 
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures


===== PAGE 2 =====
4281. Scholarship for the Animal Sciences Degree Program 
1.1. This scholarship is open to citizens of Azerbaijan who are admitted to the Bachelor of 
Science in Animal Sciences program offered by the School of Agricultural and Food 
Sciences. 
1.2. Incoming undergraduate students are eligible to receive a 100 % tuition fee and student 
fee waiver for the first semester of their studies. 
1.3. Students awarded with this scholarship must graduate within the normative study 
period – that is, 5 years (10 semesters) after their admission for undergraduate students 
if they are enrolled on the EAPP program or 4 years (8 semesters) after their admission 
if they are directly enrolled on a degree program. 
1.4. Tuition and student fees related to the summer term and any semesters beyond the 
normative duration of study are excluded from the scope of this program and should 
be covered by the student. 
1.5. In case of prolongation of the study for documented medical emergencies and/or other 
personal issues out of students’ control, the Scholarship may be awarded for one 
additional term only. 
1.6. The Scholarship is renewable for undergraduate students when certain criteria are met 
upon availability of funds: 
1.6.1. 
Returning students must accumulate a term Grade Point Average (GPA) of 
2.00 or higher. 
1.6.2. 
Students must maintain a full load of coursework by attempted hours. 
Students on academic probation are required to take one course fewer than a full 
course load in order to maintain their scholarship. 
1.6.3. 
Students found in violation of the ADA University Honor Code once will 
not be eligible for the scholarship for the remainder of their tenure at the University. 
1.7. Students who do not meet the requirements are subject to scholarship probation for the 
following semester without losing the benefits of the scholarship. Students will lose 
the scholarship benefits only if they do not meet the requirements for two consecutive 
terms. The fellowship will be restored from the term the requirements are met again. 
1.8. After the Scholarship is restored, the requirements apply again. 
Scholarship for the Animal 
Sciences Degree Program 
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures
