

===== PAGE 1 =====
ADA University No. 1100 Rev.: 5 
Policy and Procedures Effective date: July 21, 2017 

Subject: Charter of ADA University 

1. 
General provisions ................................................................................................................................. 1 
2. 
Structure and Governance of the University ......................................................................................... 1 
3. 
Areas of Activity .................................................................................................................................... 4 
4. 
Admission to the University .................................................................................................................. 6 
5. 
Academic Activity and Organization of Education ............................................................................... 6 
6. 
Academic Activity ................................................................................................................................. 8 
7. 
Financial and Economic activity ........................................................................................................... 9 
8. 
International Relations of the University in the Area of Education .................................................... 10 
9. 
Reorganization and Liquidation of the University .............................................................................. 11


===== PAGE 2 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Charter of ADA University 
1 | P a g e 
 
1. General provisions 
1.1. ADA University (hereinafter referred to as University) was established under the decree dated January 
13th, 2014 by the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan. 
1.2. The University is the legal heir of the Diplomatic Academy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic Azerbaijan and Information Technologies University. The University functions under the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan. 
1.3. The University is the state higher education institution implementing personnel training at all levels of 
higher education, offering higher and additional education programs, carrying out fundamental and applied 
scientific research. 
1.4. The University is a legal entity; it has its own independent balance, property under its ownership and 
disposal, treasury and bank accounts, flag, seal with the image of the coat of arms of the Republic of 
Azerbaijan and the name of the University engraved on it, stamps, individual logo and letterheads. 
1.5. In its activities, the University is guided by the Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan, international 
treaties to which the Republic of Azerbaijan is a Party, the laws of the Republic of Azerbaijan, decrees and 
resolutions of the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, decrees and resolutions of the Cabinet of 
ministers of the Republic of Azerbaijan, and this Charter. 
1.6. As provided by the Law on Education of the Republic of Azerbaijan and this Charter, the University is 
free to choose and recruit personnel and to perform activities in education, scientific, material, technical 
and other areas. 
1.7. The University has the right to conclude agreements, to establish education unions and associations 
and to become a member of such organizations. 
1.8. The University is located in the city of Baku. 
2. Structure and Governance of the University 
2.1. The University establishes its structure independently and forms various internal organizational units 
which include: institutions, branches, faculties, chairs, departments, libraries, research and innovation 
centers, laboratories, student dormitories, sports centers, guest houses, canteens and other organizational


===== PAGE 3 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Charter of ADA University 
2 | P a g e 
 
units. In accordance with its profile, the University can establish production plants, a pilot preschool and 
general education institutions. 
2.2. Authorities of the organizational units of the Universities that are not legal entities are established by 
statutes approved by the Rector of the University (hereinafter referred to as the Rector). 
2.3. The Structure of the University is approved by the Rector as advised by the University Senate. Heads 
of the organizational units and branches of the University are assigned by the Rector. 
2.4. Within the limits of state education standards arising from international agreements to which the 
Republic of Azerbaijan is a Party, the University is free in the development of academic programs, their 
assessment and the conduction of research. 
2.5. The supreme governing body of the University is the Senate (hereinafter referred to as the Senate). The 
Senate oversees general and academic-educational activities of the University and specifies the directions 
of these activities. Major areas under the control of the Senate include: the specification of the educational, 
academic, research and international activities of the University, the approval of strategic and annual action 
plans, development of the basics of library and IT services, the approval of names and purposeful 
scholarships, the establishment of the rules for student-career management and for organization of alumni 
relations, and the awarding academic degrees and names and conferring the name of honorary doctor of the 
University. Moreover, the Senate hears annual reports of the Rector and deans, and proposes changes and 
additions to the University Charter. Members of the Senate are elected for two years. 
2.6. The supreme advisory body of the University is the Board of Trustees of the University(hereinafter 
referred to as the Board of Trustees). The Board of Trustees advises on the strategic activity of the 
University and its direction. 
The Board of Trustees is composed of at least 9 persons. 
The Board includes permanent and elected members. The Minister of External Affairs, The 
Minister of Education of the Republic of Azerbaijan, and the Rector of the University are permanent 
members to the Board of Trustees. Other members of the Board of Trustees are elected for the term of two 
years at its annual meeting. Areas of competence and activity of the Board of Trustees as well as the rules 
for the organization of its activity are established by the Statute on the Board of Trustees of the University 
adopted at the meeting of the Board and approved by the Rector.


===== PAGE 4 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Charter of ADA University 
3 | P a g e 
 
2.7. The Board of Trustees: 
2.7.1. gives suggestions as to the strategic development direction of the University; supports the raising of 
additional funds for the University and the improvement of its material and technical base; 
2.7.2. gives suggestions for the investment of resources accrued in the permanent fund of the University 
and for gaining additional benefits; 
2.7.3. hears the Rector’s reports on the annual budget of the University and its implementation, activities 
of the University, disposal of its property and annual audit results of the University; 
2.7.4. takes the initiative for the introduction of best trends in the area of education, strengthens the 
international relations of the University and assists in the formation and development of its brand. 
2.8. The activities of the University are led by the Rector. The Rector is assigned to the position and 
dismissed by the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan. In the absence of the Rector, the activity of the 
University is led by the provost authorized by the Rector. 
2.9. Rector: 
2.9.1. leads academic, educational, training, research, production, financial, economic and other activities 
of the University and bears full responsibility for its activities; 
2.9.2. represents the University in relations with state bodies and organizations and other local and 
international organizations; 
2.9.3. approves deals, grants powers of attorney, and opens accounts at banks and other credit 
establishments on behalf of the University; 
2.9.4. gives orders, decrees and other written directions of which the implementation is mandatory; 
2.9.5. approves decisions made by the Senate and complies with the recommendations of the Board of 
Trustees; 
2.9.6. approves labor and other contracts with employees, and organizes their remuneration and professional 
development;


===== PAGE 5 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Charter of ADA University 
4 | P a g e 
 
2.9.7. approves the administrative and functional management structure and staff schedule of the 
University, assigns the provosts and approves the deans to the positions as advised by the Senate, establishes 
competences of employees and approves job descriptions. 
2.9.8. approves statutes governing the activities of the organizational units of the University and internal 
disciplinary regulations; 
2.9.9. organizes inventory at the University, oversees the use of material resources, signs reports to be 
submitted to financial and tax bodies, and within the limits of his/her competence gives directions on the 
property and resources of the University; 
2.9.10. controls the permanent fund and all areas of activity of the University; 
2.9.11. establishes the international relations of the University and oversees its membership to organizations 
and unions, as well as its activities or representation overseas; 
2.9.12. settles other issues related to the activities of the University. 
2.10. Governance of the University is regulated by this Charter. The Ministry of External Affairs of the 
Republic of Azerbaijan can give suggestions to the University in connection with relevant personnel 
training, strengthening of the international reputation, enhancing the activity of the University, as well as 
attracting foreign students to the University and other issues. Relationships of the University with the 
Ministry of External Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan are established by agreement. 
2.11. The University is entitled to have proprietary rights and private non-property rights, to establish 
permanent funds, research and innovation centers and to manage such funds and centers on the basis of free 
market principle. 
2.12. The Establishment and functioning of the units of political parties and religious institutions at the 
University is not allowed. 
3. Areas of Activity 
3.1. The University has the right to conclude agreements with legal entities and natural persons and render 
remunerated services under these agreements. 
3.2. The University performs activities and services (including remunerated) in following areas:


===== PAGE 6 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Charter of ADA University 
5 | P a g e 
 
3.2.1. the establishment and teaching of academic programs for various professions and specialist training; 
3.2.2. the carrying out of fundamental and applied scientific research in the areas of science and training of 
academic-pedagogical personnel; 
3.2.3. the teaching foreign languages, executive education and additional education in other areas; 
3.2.4. the carrying out fundamental and applied scientific research in the areas of pedagogics, individual 
development and education management. With this aim in view, it may establish preschool and general 
education programs satisfying modern requirements and conduct teaching and training at pilot preschool 
and general education institutions. 
3.2.5. the establishment of research and innovation center, training of highly qualified specialists at this 
center, improvement of science and education, acquisition of intellectual property rights with the help of 
this center; 
3.2.6. conducting consulting and marketing services in engineering, information technologies, business and 
education management, public and international relations and other areas in line with the University profile; 
3.2.7. the implementation of purposeful programs and projects financed by state bodies, legal entities and 
natural persons and international organizations; 
3.2.8. performing cultural and enlightenment services; 
3.2.9. rendering medical and preventive services for employees of the University, its teaching staff and 
students; 
3.2.10. rendering a sports and physical training service; 
3.2.11. the conduction of scientific conferences, workshops, symposiums and forums; 
3.2.12. the organization, management and proposal of printing, publishing, audio, video and multimedia 
works; 
3.2.13. strengthening the international reputation and activity of the University by means of foundations 
and research centers functioning overseas, attracting foreign students to the University, and arranging 
overseas practical training of University students, student and teacher exchange with international 
educational institutions, and the organization of joint publications and events;


===== PAGE 7 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Charter of ADA University 
6 | P a g e 
 
3.2.14. the organization and management of a student dormitory, hotel for the guests of the University and 
housing services for administrative and teaching staff; 
3.2.15. the organization and management of service at the canteen; 
3.2.16. the organization of economic work; 
3.2.17. the performance of other legal services. 
4. Admission to the University 
4.1. Students are enrolled in the University by the State Students Admission Commission of the Republic 
of Azerbaijan on the basis of results achieved by undergraduate applicants at knowledge assessment tests. 
4.2. Citizens of the Republic of Azerbaijan are admitted to the University in the manner prescribed by the 
State Students Admission Committee of the Republic of Azerbaijan and by taking features of the area into 
account. 
4.3. Foreigners and stateless persons are admitted to the University on the basis of international agreements 
to which the Republic of Azerbaijan is a Party, as well as the agreement signed between the University and 
the foreigner or stateless person. 
4.4. The University submits its suggestions on admission plans to the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic 
of Azerbaijan. The Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Azerbaijan submits its suggestions on admission 
plans to the Committee of Education under the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The University 
admission plan is established by the Committee of Education under the President of the Republic of 
Azerbaijan. 
4.5. The University establishes the admission plan for additional education independently. 
4.6. Education at the University is fee-based. 
5. Academic Activity and Organization of Education 
5.1. Science, training and education at the University serves the following purposes: 
5.1.1. satisfying individual’s intellectual, cultural and spiritual needs by means of science and education;


===== PAGE 8 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Charter of ADA University 
7 | P a g e 
 
5.1.2. satisfying state and public need by highly educated, qualified human resources meeting modern 
requirements; 
5.1.3. protecting, promoting and increasing moral, cultural and scientific values; 
5.1.4. increasing students’ practical and theoretical knowledge in various specialties, strengthening their 
research and analytical skills, providing them with the opportunity to learn a foreign language, shaping their 
career preparation, communication and other skills; 
5.1.5. strengthening students’ and employee’s sense of patriotism, citizenship and social responsibility; 
5.1.6. providing foreign citizens with the possibility to receive high level education, to become familiar 
with the intellectual, cultural, moral heritage and values of Azerbaijan, assisting with their professional 
development; 
5.1.7. training academic and pedagogical personnel in line with the University profile, continuous 
improvement of their academic capacity and professionalism. 
5.2. With the view of implementation of the tasks foreseen by Clause 5.1 of this Charter, the University 
organizes education as follows: 
5.2.1. establishes and teaches Bachelor’s, Master’s, and Doctorate programs for various specialties 
5.2.2. establishes and teaches additional education programs for professional development and continued 
education purposes; 
5.2.3. establishes and teaches preschool and general education programs at pilot preschool and general 
education institutions functioning under the University. 
5.3. Within the limits of the education standards arising from international agreements to which the 
Republic of Azerbaijan is a Party, the University is free to make and implement the following decisions in 
connection with all education levels and programs: 
5.3.1. determining term of education at all levels of education; 
5.3.2. organization, occasional improvement and monitoring of academic programs, processes, textbooks 
and training aids; 
5.3.3. determining education program and annual schedule of exams and tests;


===== PAGE 9 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Charter of ADA University 
8 | P a g e 
 
5.3.4. determining the form, methods and means of education; 
5.3.5. assessing the knowledge and business qualities of students and audience on the basis of the results of 
education; 
Decisions foreseen by Clause 5.3 of this Charter on levels of education, specialties and programs are 
implemented on the basis of the plan developed by the Senate and approved by the Rector. 5.4. Education 
at the University is conducted in English and Azerbaijani. Other foreign languages can be taught at the 
University. The language of an academic program or for teaching a discipline is determined by the Senate 
of the University as advised by the corresponding faculty. Students completing Bachelor’s or Master’s 
higher education programs and passing final state attestation shall receive the document in state approved 
format on completion of the University – a diploma. Appendix to this diploma indicates the disciplines 
studied by the student, credits earned and grades. 
5.4. Persons completing doctorate education and awarded with a corresponding academic degree shall 
receive the document in state approved single form, certifying the obtained academic degree as provided 
by Statute on the Rules for Conferring Academic Degrees and Names approved by the Decree no.857, dated 
February 21, 2003 of the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan. 
6. Academic Activity 
6.1. At the University, the training of specialists is realized as guided by the principle of unity of science 
and education. 
6.2. The Thematic plan of the scientific research work and related reports are approved by the scientific 
councils of academic departments and faculties. 
6.3. Scientific activity is an integral part of the work of the teaching staff. 
6.4. Scientific research is carried out at the University funded by the state budget, various funds, and extra-
budgetary resources of the University as well as the resources received from orders, grants and donations. 
6.5. At the University, academic and scientific-pedagogical personnel is trained through postgraduate 
program, assigning those willing to receive academic degrees to scientific and research institutions and by 
providing leaves of absences for completing research work.


===== PAGE 10 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Charter of ADA University 
9 | P a g e 
 
6.6. At the University, academic degrees are awarded by means of thesis defending. Associate professor 
and doctor academic degrees are conferred to University personnel pursuant to the Statute on the Rules for 
Conferring Academic Degrees and Names approved by decree no.857, dated February 21, 2003 of the 
President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, according to the results achieved in the area of scientific and 
pedagogical activity. 
6.7. The University is entitled to award an honorary professor (doctor) degree. Criteria and rules for 
conferring honorary professor (doctor) degrees are approved by the Rector. Decisions on the conferring of 
honorary professor (doctor) degrees are made by the Senate. 
7. Financial and Economic activity 
7.1. Sources of income of the University are as follows: 
7.1.1. public funds; 
7.1.2. income received from the fee-based education; 
7.1.3. Profit gained by the University from the services performed in accordance with the Section 3 of this 
Charter; 
7.1.4. annual subsidies allocated by the foundations established by the University; 
7.1.5. grants by legal entities and natural persons including foreign legal entities and natural persons, as 
well as international organizations, inherited resources, donations, sponsorship and other aids; 
7.1.6. Resources obtained from the sale or leasing of the physically and morally depreciated equipment, 
vehicles and other property not suitable for education purposes under the ownership of the University; 
7.1.7. other legal resources. 
7.2. Property of the University comprises the property granted to it by state or municipality, given under its 
ownership or disposal by legal entities and natural persons, the property obtained as a result of its activity 
as well as its intellectual property products and other legal assets. The University bears responsibility for 
the maintenance, protection and efficient use of the property under its ownership and disposal. Property 
management activity of the University is performed under the supervision of the Rector. As the result of 
rendered services, the University can procure movables or immovable property, new technology, vehicles


===== PAGE 11 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Charter of ADA University 
10 | P a g e 
 
and other legal property. Property obtained by the University at the expense of resources received from 
extra-budgetary sources or donations is pertained to the ownership of the University. 
7.3. Income and resources obtained by the University are allocated to the development of science and 
education, establishment of a permanent fund, libraries, library facilities, student scholarships, professional 
development and material incentive of the scientific-pedagogical and administrative personnel. The 
University independently determines the areas for expenditure of the income and resources it has obtained, 
defines the specific weight of the allocations for material incentive of University employees and can 
establish foundation for the social protection of its employees. 
7.4. With the view of realizing its objectives and tasks, the University can establish foundations in the 
Republic of Azerbaijan and overseas. The objective of the foundations is to ensure the financial 
independence of the University from the state budget and its future financial stability. Property of the 
foundations is formed on the account of donations, grants and other legal sources. Income and resources 
obtained by the University can be directly transferred to these foundations. Profit and resources obtained 
by foundations can be used only for the purposes of the University. 
7.5. The University can establish research and innovation centers within its material and technical base. 
These centers are aimed at research and development functions towards carrying out of fundamental and 
applied scientific researches in various areas of science and education, improving science and education in 
the country and obtaining intellectual property rights. Profit and resources obtained by research and 
innovation centers can be used only for the purposes of the University. 
7.6. With the view of gaining additional profit, the University can be engaged in entrepreneurship activity 
foreseen by this Charter and the Law on Education of the Republic of Azerbaijan. 
7.7. The University does not aim at gaining direct income. 
8. International Relations of the University in the Area of Education 
8.1. As provided by the Law on Education of the Republic of Azerbaijan and in accordance with its areas 
of activity, the University can establish direct relations with scientific and educational institutions, 
organizations, international organizations and foundations of foreign countries, conclude bilateral and 
multilateral cooperation agreements, join governmental and nongovernmental organizations (unions, 
associations etc.) and realize other forms of cooperation.


===== PAGE 12 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Charter of ADA University 
11 | P a g e 
 
8.2. The University has the right to implement international and joint educational programs. Specialist 
training within these academic programs is governed according to agreements and this Charter. 
8.3. The University can establish branches and representative offices, research centers and foundations with 
legal entity status within and outside the borders of the Republic of Azerbaijan in accordance with the Civil 
Code of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Law on Education of the Republic of Azerbaijan and by complying 
with the terms specified by international agreements to which the Republic of Azerbaijan is a Party. The 
University is free to establish research centers and foundations overseas. The University can allocate 
financial resources from its budget for financing such research centers and foundations. Overseas branches 
and representative offices of the University are launched after coordination with the Cabinet of Ministers 
of the Republic of Azerbaijan. 
8.4. Overseas branches and representative offices of the University function in accordance with the 
international agreements to which the Republic of Azerbaijan is a Party and unless otherwise provided, 
pursuant to the legislation of the given country and consistent with the Statute on Branches and 
Representative Offices approved by the University. 
9. Reorganization and Liquidation of the University 
9.1. The University is reorganized and liquidated by the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan. 
9.2. In case of liquidation, property of the University is disposed of as provided by the Civil Code of the 
Republic of Azerbaijan
