

===== PAGE 1 =====
1 | P a g e 
1.4.9 CREDIT REGULATIONS 

1. Purpose 
 
ADA University strives to ensure the high quality and integrity of its degrees. This requires that credits 
and degrees be awarded only to students who have fully and at least satisfactorily fulfilled all 
requirements of their respective courses and programs. It also presupposes that credits that were 
previously awarded by other institutions of higher education and that are to be transferred to ADA 
University fully meet the standards set forth by ADA University for its degree programs. The purpose of 
this regulation is to define such standards and requirements and to provide a framework for the awarding 
of in-residence credits as well as for the assessment of non-residence credits requested for transfer. 
 
Azerbaijan is part of the European Union’s Eastern Partnership, and this partnership also extends to the 
field of education. As a result, and in order to enable its students to fully benefit from the opportunities 
opened up by this partnership, ADA University bases its credit system on the European Credit Transfer 
and Accumulation System (ECTS). In addition, and as a part of its strategy of internationalization, ADA 
University aims to ensure that its credit regulations are translatable into the standards of the U.S. system 
of higher education. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This regulation applies to all undergraduate and graduate degree programs and to all credit-based 
certificates at ADA University. 
 
Teachers are expected to clearly define learning outcomes and workload expectations for any learning 
activity leading to the award of academic credit. Workload expectations must comply with the rules 
defined in this regulation. Learning outcomes must correspond to the standards set forth in ADA 
University’s Statement of Core Competencies and Learning Outcomes. 
 
Students who intend to transfer credit to ADA University earned either prior to or during their enrollment 
for a degree program at ADA University are expected to thoroughly familiarize themselves with the rules 
and proceedings set forth in this regulation. 

3. Definitions 
 
The following definitions are based on the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS): 
1. Credit or Credit Hour is defined as a quantified means of expressing a specific volume of learning. 
This volume is composed of clearly defined learning outcomes and of the workload associated with 
the achievement of these outcomes. Credit hours are not identical to contact hours or with 60-minute 
hours. 
2. Learning Outcomes are statements of what a student is expected to know, understand and be able 
to demonstrate upon the completion of a specific process of learning. 
3. Workload is defined as an estimation of the time a student typically needs to complete all learning 
activities required to achieve expected learning outcomes. Learning activities include lectures and


===== PAGE 2 =====
2 | P a g e 
seminars, projects, practical work and internships, as well as independent study activities and 
examinations. Workload is therefore not calculated based on contact hours or class time alone. 
4. Contact Hour or Class Time is defined as a specific period of time students spend on activities guided 
by teaching staff. 

4. Credit Hours 
 
4.1 Calculation of Credits 
a. At ADA University, 1 contact hour consists of 37.5 minutes. 
b. Fall semester and Spring semester include 15 weeks of instruction, while Summer term consists 
of 6 weeks of instruction. 
c. At ADA University, 1 credit hour represents 25 minutes of class time and 95 minutes of further 
learning activities per week. This is equivalent to 6.25 hours of class time and 23.75 hours of 
further learning activities per semester (based on a 60-minute hour). 
d. 1 credit hour accordingly corresponds to a semester workload of 30 hours (based on a 60-
minute hour). Compared to the U.S. credit system with a semester credit hour consisting of a 
semester workload of 45 to 48 hours (based on a 50-minute hour) or 37.5 to 40.0 hours (based 
on a 60-minute hour), 2 credit hours at ADA University approximately correspond to 1.5 credit 
hours within the U.S. credit system.1 
e. Most courses at ADA University award 6 credit hours. This is equivalent to 150 minutes of class 
time (= 4 contact hours) and 570 minutes of further learning activities per week and to 37.5 
hours of class time (= 60 contact hours) and 142.5 hours of further learning activities per 
semester. 
 
4.2 Awarding of Credits 
a. Credits are awarded for all learning activities that are required by any of the degree programs 
and credit-based certificates offered at ADA University. 
b. Credits are only awarded if a student has completed the expected workload and achieved the 
previously stated learning outcomes associated with a specific unit of study or volume of 
learning. The evaluation of student achievement and workload completion (including minimum 
grade requirements for the awarding of credit) is based on ADA University’s Student 
Assessment Regulations. 
 
4.3 Credit Hour Requirements 
a. A typical Bachelor’s degree program requires at least 240 credit hours to be earned by the 
student. This entails the successful completion of approximately 40 courses, depending on the 
respective degree program. Translated into the U.S. semester credit hour system, a typical 
Bachelor’s degree program at ADA University consists of approximately 180 semester credit 
hours. Further requirements are detailed in ADA University’s Undergraduate Degree 
Regulations. 
b. A typical Master’s degree program requires at least 90 credit hours to be earned by the student 
(including an Independent Study Project). Depending on the respective degree program, this 
entails the successful completion of approximately 12 courses plus the Independent Study 
Project, which usually covers 18 credit hours. Exceptions are the MBA program, which requires 
70 credit hours (including the Independent Study Project), and the MBA in Finance program, 
 
1 Against the high-quality background of U.S. university degrees, ADA University usually accepts credits earned at U.S. institutions of 
higher education based on a conversion rate of 1 U.S. semester credit hour being equivalent to 2 ECTS.


===== PAGE 3 =====
3 | P a g e 
which requires 76 credit hours (including the Independent Study Project). Translated into the 
U.S. semester credit hour system, a typical Master’s degree program at ADA University consists 
of approximately 67.5 semester credit hours. Further requirements are detailed in ADA 
University’s Graduate Degree Regulations. 
c. Credit hours are used to determine student enrollment status. Students are considered full-time 
if they register for a minimum number of credit hours per semester. Student enrollment status 
is regulated by ADA University’s Student Enrollment Status Regulations. 

5. Transfer Credit 
 
5.1 In-Residence and Non-Residence Credits 
a. Credits are considered in-residence if they are awarded to full-time, part-time, non-degree and 
incoming exchange students in courses taken at ADA University, or in courses coordinated by 
an academic unit of ADA University in any instructional modality. 
b. Credits are considered non-residence if they are transferred to ADA University, and/or if they 
have been awarded by another institution of higher education during a student’s enrollment for 
a degree program at ADA University. The latter requires that the student receives a prior permit 
from ADA University to study at another institution. 
c. Some ADA University courses and learning activities are conducted at physical sites other than 
the ADA University campus. They are typically considered as in-residence courses and learning 
activities. In most cases, students receive in-residence credits for such courses and learning 
activities. 
 
5.2 General Rules for the Transfer of Credit from Other Institutions 
a. ADA University accepts transfer credits mainly for courses taught in English. Credits for courses 
taught in another language can only be transferred in exceptional cases and after prior approval 
by the Dean (or designee) of the School that serves as the administrative home of the student’s 
degree program. 
b. Students may not receive graduate credit for any learning activity designated as solely 
undergraduate at the institution where the learning activity was completed. 
c. The acceptance of credit requested for transfer is subject to minimum grade requirements, 
which are applicable to each individual course for which the transfer of credit is requested (see 
chapters 5.3 and 5.5 below). Grades are evaluated according to ADA University’s grading scale. 
The conversion of grades is based on the Credit Transfer Handbook that is in effect during the 
academic year in which a student enrolls or re-enrolls at ADA University. 
d. Approved transfer credit will be posted to the student’s transcript. All transferred credits, courses 
and grades will be clearly marked as coming from another institution of higher education. Grades 
from approved transfer courses taken at another institution will not count towards a student’s 
cumulative GPA at ADA University. Yet, approved transfer credit will count towards the total 
number of credits needed for graduation. 
 
5.3 Transfer of Credit Earned Prior to Enrollment at ADA University 
a. Undergraduate students may request to transfer credit for courses taken at another accredited 
institution prior to their admission to ADA University. The total number of credits transferred for 
a single degree program is subject to in-residence degree requirements (for details, see 
Undergraduate Degree Regulations) and may not exceed 30 credits (if they are to be transferred 
from an international institution) or 12 credits (if they are to be transferred from an Azerbaijani 
institution). Courses proposed for transfer must have been completed with a grade of C or better


===== PAGE 4 =====
4 | P a g e 
(after conversion to ADA University’s grading scale) and must have been completed no more 
than 3 years prior to the beginning of the semester for which the student is seeking admission 
to ADA University. 
b. Graduate students may request to transfer credit for courses taken at another accredited 
institution prior to their admission to ADA University. The total number of credits transferred for 
a single degree program is subject to in-residence degree requirements (for details, see 
Graduate Degree Regulations) and may not exceed 18 credits (if they are to be transferred from 
an international institution) or 12 credits (if they are to be transferred from an Azerbaijani 
institution). Courses proposed for transfer must have been completed with a grade of B- or better 
(after conversion to ADA University’s grading scale) and must have been completed no more 
than 2 years prior to the beginning of the semester for which the student is seeking admission 
to ADA University. 
c. The transfer of credit must be approved prior to a student’s admission to ADA University. 
Responsibility for the approval or denial of transfer credit rests with the Dean (or designee) of 
the School that serves as the administrative home of the student’s degree program. 
d. Students must provide the Office of Admissions and Student Records with an official transcript 
from the institution at which the proposed course(s) was (were) completed. They must also 
include a syllabus for each course for which the transfer of credits is requested. The Office of 
Admissions and Student Records will submit all documents received to the respective Dean (or 
designee). 
e. The Dean (or designee) will inform the Office of Admissions and Student Records of credits and 
courses approved for transfer. The Office of Admissions and Student Records will update the 
student’s transcript accordingly. 
f. After prior approval, credits for in-residence courses that are part of a graduate degree program 
at ADA University and that have been earned before the admission to a subsequent graduate 
degree program at ADA University may be shared. There is no maximum number of credits that 
can be shared. Responsibility for the approval or denial of shared credit rests with the Dean (or 
designee) of the School that serves as the administrative home of the subsequent graduate 
program. Sharing of credit is only permissible if the respective course(s) has (have) been 
completed with a grade of B- or better (based on ADA University’s grading scale). 
g. After prior approval, credits for in-residence courses that are part of a certificate program at ADA 
University and that have been earned before the admission to a graduate degree program at 
ADA University may be shared. Students can share up to 60 credits for a single degree program. 
Responsibility for the approval or denial of shared credit rests with the Dean (or designee) of 
the School that serves as the administrative home of the graduate program. Sharing of credit is 
only permissible if the respective course(s) has (have) been completed with a grade of B- or 
better (based on ADA University’s grading scale) no more than 2 years prior to the beginning of 
the semester for which the student is seeking admission to ADA University. 
 
5.4 Studying at Another Institution 
a. Undergraduate and graduate students of ADA University may participate in an exchange 
program and thus take courses at another institution of higher education, provided that the 
institution of higher education is an international partner institution of ADA University. Students 
who wish to participate in one of ADA University’s exchange programs must meet the 
requirements and conditions and successfully complete the application process outlined in 5.4.b 
to 5.4.p. 
b. Students may study for one semester at another institution if they wish to transfer credits earned 
at that institution to ADA University. They may reapply for a second semester at an international 
partner institution, but they will not be able to transfer credits earned during that period (for


===== PAGE 5 =====
5 | P a g e 
details on the transfer of credit, see chapter 5.5 below). This may result in a delayed graduation 
date. Priority will be given to those students who have not yet taken part in an exchange 
program. 
c. Undergraduate students must have completed the first 60 credits of their respective degree 
program in residence and have a minimum of 2.50 cumulative GPA at the time of their 
application for an exchange program. In addition, students must be in residence during their 
final semester. Students are not permitted to study at another institution at that time. 
d. Graduate students must have completed the first 18 credits of their respective degree program 
in residence and have a minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA at the time of their application for an 
exchange program. In addition, students must be in residence during their final semester. 
Students are not permitted to study at another institution at that time. 
e. Exchange programs offering scholarships or any other kind of financial aid are available to all 
students with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00 at the time of their application for the program. 
Students must also meet any other requirement set forth by the prospective host institution. 
f. Students convicted of any violation of ADA University’s Honor Code and / or the Student Code 
of Conduct may not participate in an exchange program. 
g. There are two application cycles per academic year, starting at the beginning of Fall semester 
and Spring semester. 
h. Before the beginning of each semester, and after having consulted with Deans, Program 
Directors and Academic Advisors, the University’s Office of Global Outreach and Partners will 
provide students with a current overview of all exchange programs and courses available. It will 
furthermore support students in all academic matters related to their application both for an 
exchange program and at the prospective host institution. 
i. During the application period, and based on their priorities, students can apply for two exchange 
programs by using the University’s application form at online.ada.edu.az/exchange. 
j. Once the application period has ended, eligible candidates will be interviewed by selection 
committees, each of which consists of members of the School that represents the area of the 
respective exchange program. The Dean of the School must be part of the respective 
committee. Students will be selected and nominated for an exchange program based on their 
prior academic performance (cumulative GPA and number of completed credits; this accounts 
for 80% of their result) and on the outcomes of the selection interviews (20%). 
k. The Office of Global Outreach and Partners will announce the results of the selection process 
and inform those students that were nominated for an exchange program. They will be 
requested to confirm their participation in or their withdrawal from a program within two days 
after the announcement has been made. 
l. Remaining places in exchange programs and places of students that withdrew will be offered to 
students on a waiting list. There might also be a second application period, the rules for which 
are identical to the ones delineated above in 5.4.h to 5.4.j. After the announcement of the 
selection results, nominated students will have one day to confirm their participation in or their 
withdrawal from a program. 
m. Upon the completion of the nomination process, the Office of Global Outreach and Partners will 
send official nomination letters to all the relevant partner institutions. Students must provide all 
the application documents required by their prospective host institution and by ADA University 
well before the end of the semester preceding the beginning of their anticipated studies abroad. 
This includes a learning agreement that must be completed (using ADA University’s Learning 
Agreement Form) in consultation with the student’s Academic Advisor and that must be 
confirmed by the Office of Admissions and Student Records. Confirmation is required for each 
course and for the number of credits proposed for transfer to ADA University. Students may


===== PAGE 6 =====
6 | P a g e 
additionally be requested to complete a second learning agreement from the partner institution 
(this is obligatory for ERASMUS+ exchange programs). 
n. After having received an acceptance letter from their prospective host institution, it is the 
students’ responsibility to ensure that they complete all the formal requirements (including visa 
and accommodation arrangements) in a comprehensive and timely manner. 
o. Students temporarily enrolled at another institution are strongly recommended to take only 
courses taught in English. In exceptional cases, when proposed courses are not taught in 
English at the host institution, students may be permitted to take courses in another language. 
This is subject to the prior approval by the Dean (or designee) of the School that serves as the 
administrative home of their respective degree program. Approval may only be granted if 
students meet the language requirement of the receiving institution. 
p. Retaking a course at another institution is only possible if the first attempt at ADA University was 
assigned a Withdrawal (W). 
q. Students who participate in an exchange program and are thus permitted to study at another 
institution will be placed on a temporary leave for the respective semester. Upon the termination 
of their leave, they will be re-enrolled at ADA University. 
 
5.5 Transfer of Credit from Another Institution During Enrollment at ADA University 
a. After their return to ADA University, and in order to transfer credits earned during their stay at 
another institution, students are required to meet with their Academic Advisor in order to 
complete the Credit Transfer Form. They must provide the Academic Advisor with an official 
transcript from the institution at which the course(s) and credits proposed for transfer were 
completed and with a syllabus for each course for which the transfer of credit is requested. 
b. Students must submit the completed Credit Transfer Form and the official transcript from the 
host institution to the Office of Admissions and Student Records. 
c. Undergraduate students may transfer up to 30 credits from an international institution of higher 
education. 
d. Graduate students may transfer up to 18 credits from an international institution of higher 
education. 
e. If (after conversion to ADA University’s grading scale) the grade of the course for which the 
transfer of credit is requested is below C for undergraduate students, or below B- for graduate 
students, credits for these courses will not be transferred. Neither will such credits count towards 
the total number of credits required for graduation. 
f. The Office of Admissions and Student Records will update the student’s transcript at ADA 
University based on the information submitted by the student and according to the regulations 
delineated in 5.5.c to 5.5.e.
