=== PAGE 1 ===
6.4.3 DATA MANAGEMENT AND REPORTING 
REGULATIONS 

1. Purpose 
 
ADA University aims to ensure that is has a comprehensive and reliable database, which is the 
precondition for an effective system of quality assurance and for well-informed decisions on the further 
development of the institution. What is more, such a database allows the University to make relevant 
information available to the public. The purpose of this document is to delineate the scope of the 
University’s database as well as the rules and proceedings pertaining to data management and data 
reporting at ADA University. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This document addresses the practices of data management and data reporting in those areas that are 
essential for the assessment and enhancement of academic quality at the University, namely the 
academic program (including teaching, learning and assessment), research, students (including 
graduates), faculty and staff. 
 
All administrative and academic units involved in the process of data management and data reporting 
are expected to be thoroughly familiar with this document. Most importantly, they are expected to provide 
and process all relevant data and information in a comprehensive and timely manner. 

3. Definitions 
 
Data Management describes the process of collecting, organizing and keeping relevant quantitative and 
qualitative information (raw data) systematically, efficiently and securely. Data management forms the 
basis of a meaningful process of data reporting. 
 
Data Reporting describes the practice of processing relevant quantitative and qualitative information 
(raw data) by translating it into accessible formats and meaningful summaries. Data reporting forms the 
basis of informed and data-driven assessments and decisions. 
 
The Reporting Period is the timespan that must be covered by a specific dataset and/or report. 
 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are clearly specified criteria that serve to measure the level of 
achievement in a certain area. They thus provide evidence of the extent to which pre-defined objectives 
have been met, missed or surpassed. Key performance indicators can be quantitative or qualitative in 
nature, providing either numerical or textual information. All information requires interpretation to ensure 
that it serves as contextualized representation of the performance in a certain area and as meaningful 
measurement of the achievement of specific objectives. 
 
The Academic Performance and Quality Assurance Database serves to collect, organize and keep all 
the quantitative and qualitative information (raw data) required to assess the University’s performance 
in all the areas relevant to the evaluation and improvement of academic quality.

=== PAGE 2 ===
4. Data Management and Reporting Regulations 
 
4.1 General Provisions 
a. It is the responsibility of the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation to regularly monitor 
the implementation of the following directives. 
b. More specifically, the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation, in conjunction with the 
Office of IT and Information Services, must ensure that the respective administrative and 
academic units provide all the relevant data in a comprehensive and timely manner; that all data 
is organized and kept systematically, efficiently and securely on the University’s Academic 
Performance and Quality Assurance Database; and that all necessary reports are prepared and 
made available to relevant stakeholders (including the University’s senior management). 
c. Deadlines mentioned in this document indicate the date on which a specific dataset or report is 
due. Most importantly, they mark the termination of any unit’s process of data gathering and 
submission for the respective reporting period (academic year, semester or term). Any data 
provided late, and any data generated afterwards, is part of the subsequent reporting period 
and will not be included in reports that cover the preceding academic year, semester or term. 
d. In order to guarantee the reliability of the University’s database, all administrative and academic 
units must thus ensure that their data is valid and that it is uploaded to Banner or provided to 
the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation prior to the respective deadlines mentioned 
in this document. 
 
4.2 Data Management 
a. The University’s Academic Performance and Quality Assurance Database includes information 
on student application, acceptance, admission, enrollment and retention; on student 
performance and on graduation; on student scholarships and on exchange programs; on course 
and faculty evaluation; on research projects and output; on the University’s faculty and staff; 
and on the employment of the University’s graduates. This information will regularly be provided 
by the administrative and academic units specified below in 4.2.d to 4.2.k. 
b. The database must be organized according to the categories delineated above in 4.2.a. The 
systematic organization and regular maintenance of the University’s database is the 
responsibility of the Office of IT and Information Services. 
c. The management of the University’s database is guided by the principles of safety and 
confidentiality. All data is kept securely and exclusively on the platforms subscribed to and 
provided by the University. Partial or full access to the database requires special permission, 
which is only granted to those members of the University that are involved in the processes of 
data management and data reporting (including select members of the Office of Quality 
Assurance and Accreditation, of the Office of Admissions and Student Records, or of the Office 
of IT and Information Services). No sensitive personal data will be disclosed to the public or to 
any member of the University not involved in the management of the database. Further details 
on the confidentiality and disclosure of information can be found in ADA University’s Personal 
Data Usage and Public Information Policy. 
d. Office of Admissions and Student Records: 
(1) For each academic year, the Office will provide information on applications to the University 
on Banner (graduate degree programs) or submit such information to the Office of Quality 
Assurance and Accreditation (undergraduate degree programs; the latter Office will add 
the information received to the database). This information must be available by the end of 
October and indicate (for each applicant) the degree program(s) for which he/she applied; 
the school, institution of education or institution of higher education that the applicant 
comes from; his/her gender, date of birth and citizenship; and (if applicable) his/her place

=== PAGE 3 ===
of origin in Azerbaijan (the district of Baku or Sumgait or the name of region). It must also 
indicate (for each applicant) whether he/she applied via the State Examination Center 
(SEC) and if so, his/her entry score from the SEC university admission test and whether 
any of the University’s degree programs was his/her first, second or third choice in the SEC 
application process (the latter information will be added to the database by Office of Quality 
Assurance and Accreditation). 
(2) For each academic year, the Office will provide information on the applicants accepted by 
the University on Banner. This information must be available by the end of October and 
indicate (for each accepted applicant) his/her name, surname and FIN Code; his/her 
admission type (such as, but not limited to, SEC university admission test, SAT test, ADA 
School, or transfer from another institution of higher education); his/her entry score from 
the respective admission type; his/her degree program and level (undergraduate or 
graduate); whether his/her parents did obtain a higher education degree and whether 
he/she thus is or is not a first-generation student; the level of English proficiency (if 
available; such as, but not limited to, TOEFL iBT or IELTS score); and the result of the 
entrance interview conducted by the University (if applicable). 
(3) For each semester and term, the Office will provide information on student enrollment on 
Banner. This information must be available by the end of October, the middle of February 
and the middle of June and indicate (for each student) his/her degree program and level 
(undergraduate or graduate); the courses in which he/she is enrolled; and the CRN (Course 
Reference Number) and teacher for each course. 
(4) For each semester and term, the Office must furthermore update information on students 
that are not enrolled in a degree program, but in courses that are part of a degree program 
or a certificate program (excluding Executive Education). This information must be 
available on Banner by the end of October, the middle of February and the middle of June 
and indicate (for each student) the semester or term in which the student began his/her 
studies; the courses (and the certificate program, if applicable) in which he/she is enrolled; 
and the CRN (Course Reference Number) and teacher for each course. 
(5) The Office will regularly update the status of students on Banner and particularly ensure 
that the status of all students is up to date by the end of October, the middle of February 
and the middle of June. For each student, this information must indicate his/her respective 
status, namely AS (active degree or non-degree student who is in residence and enrolled 
in courses); VT (incoming student who is visiting as part of an exchange program); OG 
(outgoing student who participates in an exchange program); IG (student who has 
graduated and is thus inactive due to graduation); TL (student who is temporarily 
interrupting his/her studies for a valid reason and who is thus on temporary leave); AD 
(student who is dismissed for academic reasons); SP (student who is suspended as a result 
of the violation of the Honor Code and/or the Student Code of Conduct); IV (student who is 
involuntarily separated from the University as a result of the violation of the Honor Code 
and/or the Student Code of Conduct); VS (student who voluntarily separates from the 
University); or IS (inactive non-degree student who does not continue his/her studies). 
(6) For each semester and term, the Office will update the type of each student on Banner. 
This information must be available by the end of October, the middle of February and the 
middle of June. For each student, this information must indicate his/her respective type, 
namely N (newly admitted/enrolled); C (continuing/retained); R (returning from academic 
dismissal); T (transferred from another institution); or U (active and non-active non-degree 
student). 
(7) For each semester and term, the Office will ensure that the academic standing of each 
student is up to date on Banner after the respective final grade submission deadline. For

=== PAGE 4 ===
each student, this information must indicate his/her respective academic standing, namely 
00 (assigned if a student is newly admitted and has no GPA); GS (assigned if a student’s 
cumulative GPA is 2.00 and above for undergraduates or 2.75 and above for graduates); 
AW (assigned if an undergraduate student’s cumulative GPA falls below 2.00); WA 
(assigned if an undergraduate student’s cumulative GPA falls below 1.00); P1 (assigned if 
an undergraduate student’s cumulative GPA is below 2.00 after AW or between 1.00 and 
1.99 after WA); P4 (assigned if a graduate student’s cumulative GPA falls below 2.75); AD 
(academic dismissal with chance of readmission; assigned if a student’s cumulative GPA 
is below 2.00 after P1 or below 2.75 after P4); DA (academic dismissal without chance of 
readmission; assigned if a student’s cumulative GPA is below 1.00 in 2 consecutive 
semesters for undergraduates or below 2.00 in 2 semesters for graduates; also assigned 
after P3 and P6 if a student fails to achieve good academic standing; also assigned if a 
student receives a level grade below D in the EAPP Program); P2 (assigned if a dismissed 
undergraduate student is readmitted); P3 (assigned if an undergraduate student’s 
cumulative GPA is below 2.00 after P2); P5 (assigned if a dismissed graduate student is 
readmitted); P6 (assigned if a graduate student’s cumulative GPA is below 2.75 after P5). 
(8) For each academic year, the Office will add all the information received from academic 
units on each faculty member’s regular teaching load, on time allocated for research, and 
on further functions to be fulfilled in service to the University. This information must be 
available by the middle of October. 
(9) For each academic year, the Office will add all the information received from academic 
units on the teaching hours delivered by each faculty member and on further functions 
fulfilled by him/her in service to the University. This information must be available by the 
end of August. 
(10) For each semester and term, the Office will add all the information received from academic 
units on the envisaged number of students for each course to Banner. This information 
must be available by the middle of July, the middle of November, and the middle of April. 
(11) For each semester and term, the Office must ensure that teachers transferred all the final 
grades for all students from Blackboard Learn to Banner before the respective final grade 
submission deadline (including the results for completed and delayed Master Theses and 
Capstone Projects). It will assign N (No Grade or Invalid Grade) if no valid final grade has 
been received before that deadline and ensure that it obtains a valid final grade within one 
semester or term. The Office must also ensure that it receives valid final grades for 
Incomplete grades (I or IP) from the preceding semester or term before the end of the 
current semester or term (for details on the submission of final grades, see the University’s 
Student Assessment Regulations). It must finally ensure that it receives all the grades 
approved for transfer from Deans (or their respective designees) and/or students and that 
it uploads all these grades on Banner no later than 2 weeks after having received the 
respective grade(s) (for details on the submission of transfer credit, see the University’s 
Credit Regulations). 
(12) The Office will regularly update the status of students that graduated on Banner and ensure 
that the status of all students that graduated during the preceding academic year is thus 
updated by the end of September of each academic year. For each graduate, this 
information must also indicate his/her semester or term of graduation. By the same 
deadline, the Office must furthermore indicate those students on Banner that are expected 
to graduate during the current academic year. 
e. English for Academic and Professional Purposes (EAPP) Program: 
(1) The EAPP Program will provide the results of the English Proficiency Exam (EPE) 
conducted in August to the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation by the end of the

=== PAGE 5 ===
first teaching week of each academic year. For each student enrolled in the EAPP Program, 
it must indicate whether he/she is expected to complete the Program within one semester 
or one year. 
(2) By the end of each semester or term, and for each student, the EAPP Program must 
provide information on each student that graduated (on time or late) from the Program 
during the respective semester or term; on each student that is still enrolled, indicating 
those that are late to graduate; and on each student that was dismissed from the Program 
for academic reasons. Information on regular, late and delayed graduation must distinguish 
between students that were expected to complete the Program within one semester and 
within one year. 
(3) The Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation will add all the information received from 
the EAPP Program to the database. 
f. Office of Faculty Affairs and Academic Administration: 
(1) For each semester, and one week before the respective final grade submission deadline, 
the Office will provide the results from the Course and Faculty Evaluation Surveys to the 
Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation. This information must include the number 
of students enrolled in each individual course after the end of the respective withdrawal 
period and the de-identified (quantitative and qualitative) responses to each question for 
each student respondent (with each student being able to respond to the survey for each 
course taken during the respective semester). 
(2) For each academic year, the Office must provide information on funding received by 
individual faculty members from the University’s Faculty Research and Development Fund 
to the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation. This information must be submitted 
by the end of the academic year and indicate all recipients and all projects for which funding 
was received and the amount received for each project and by each faculty member. 
(3) For each academic year, the Office must provide information on rewards received by 
individual faculty members from the University’s Research Reward Program to the Office 
of Quality Assurance and Accreditation. This information must be submitted by the end of 
the academic year and indicate all rewarded recipients and projects and the amount 
received for each project and by each faculty member. 
(4) The Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation will add all the information received from 
the Office of Faculty Affairs and Academic Administration to the database. 
g. Office of Finance and Accounting: 
(1) For each academic year, and by the end of October, the Office will provide information on 
Banner on each applicant that was accepted by the University based on a scholarship 
and/or stipend. For each accepted applicant, this information must include the name and 
surname; the type (merit, non-merit) and name of the scholarship and/or stipend; and the 
fixed amount of financial support provided by the scholarship and/or stipend for one 
semester or one academic year (if the respective student enrolled at the University). It must 
also provide information on each accepted applicant with a special status, including the 
name and surname and indicating the specific status (IDP; those deprived of parental care; 
those with a diagnosed disability until and including the age of 18 and those with a category 
1 or 2 disability after the age of 18; children of disabled war veterans; children from families 
of martyrs). 
(2) For each semester or term, and one week after the respective final grade submission 
deadline, the Office will indicate on Banner the name and surname of each (undergraduate 
and graduate) student that received or retained a scholarship either as a result of his/her 
academic performance at ADA University or as a regular extension of the respective 
scholarship. This information must include the type (merit, non-merit) and name of the

=== PAGE 6 ===
scholarship and the amount of financial support provided by the scholarship for one 
semester. 
h. Schools, General Education Program, EAPP Program: 
(1) These academic units must provide information on new research output to the Office of 
Faculty Affairs and Academic Administration at the end of January and the beginning of 
July of each calendar year (using the Research Information Form). This information must 
include all relevant details on every single publication and conference in which a faculty 
member of ADA University was actively involved (including the country of publication or the 
host country of the conference). It must also indicate research projects that were completed 
in collaboration with other faculty members of ADA University and/or with members from 
other institutions. For articles published in journals, it must furthermore specify whether the 
journal is indexed, and if so, the name of the database, the journal’s impact factor, and the 
median impact factor of the journal’s field or discipline at the time of the article’s publication. 
(2) These academic units must provide information on newly obtained patents to the Office of 
Faculty Affairs and Academic Administration at the end of January and the beginning of 
July of each calendar year (using the Research Information Form). For each patent, this 
information must include the recipient of the patent, the invention for which the patent was 
granted, the name and country of the granting authority, the patent number, and the period 
for which the patent is valid. 
(3) These academic units must provide information on ongoing research projects to the Office 
of Faculty Affairs and Academic Administration at the end of January and the beginning of 
July of each calendar year (using the Research Information Form). For each project, this 
information must include the name(s) of the contributing faculty member(s) of ADA 
University and/or of members from other institutions; the project’s topic or title; its 
anticipated publication format (and/or the name of the conference, if applicable) and 
whether it is expected to be published internationally or nationally (and/or the host country 
of the conference, if applicable); and the envisaged month of the project’s completion. 
(4) For each academic year, these academic units must provide information on external 
research funding received by individual faculty members to the Office of Faculty Affairs and 
Academic Administration. This information must be submitted whenever a faculty member 
receives funding, and all units must ensure that it is fully submitted by the end of the 
academic year. It must indicate all recipients and all projects for which external funding was 
received; the amount received for each project and by each faculty member; and the source 
of external funding. 
(5) Within two weeks, the Office of Faculty Affairs and Academic Administration will forward all 
the information received from the academic units mentioned above to the Office of Quality 
Assurance and Accreditation, who will add the information to the database. 
(6) For each academic year, these academic units must (for each faculty member) provide 
information on his/her regular teaching load (specifying the teaching hours for each degree 
program and/or the General Education Program and/or the EAPP Program), on the time 
allocated for research, and on further functions to be fulfilled in service to the University. 
This information must be submitted by the end of September of the academic year to the 
Office of Admissions and Student Records. 
(7) For each academic year, these academic units must (for each faculty member) provide 
information on delivered teaching hours (specifying teaching hours for each degree 
program and/or the General Education Program and/or the EAPP Program) and on further 
functions fulfilled in service to the University. This information must be submitted by the 
middle of August to the Office of Admissions and Student Records.

=== PAGE 7 ===
(8) For each semester and term, these academic units must provide the envisaged number of 
students for each course to the Office of Admissions and Student Records. This information 
must be submitted by the beginning of July, the beginning of November, and the beginning 
of April. 
(9) For each semester and term, the teachers of the academic units mentioned above must 
transfer all the final grades for their students from Blackboard Learn to Banner before the 
respective final grade submission deadline (including the results for completed and delayed 
Master Theses and Capstone Projects and valid final grades for Incomplete grades from 
the preceding semester or term). 
(10) For each semester and term, Deans (or their respective designees) must submit all grades 
that were earned prior to the enrollment at ADA University and that are approved for 
transfer to the Office of Admissions and Student Records. All grades must be submitted 2 
weeks prior to the beginning of the respective semester or term. 
i. Department of Organization and Personnel: 
(1) The Department will provide detailed information on newly hired personnel and on 
personnel that left the University to the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation by 
the end of the first month of each semester (Summer term data must be provided together 
with the data for Fall semester). 
(2) For new members of the University, this information must include name and surname; 
gender; citizenship and FIN Code; position at ADA University; employment category 
(faculty or staff); type of employment (full-time, part-time, associate, adjunct, visiting); 
academic degrees (including granting university, country, graduation year, and academic 
subject for each degree); previous work experience at institutions of higher education 
(including name of each institution, country, field of expertise, positions held, and duration 
in years); School affiliation and discipline (for faculty only); Office affiliation (for staff only); 
and the beginning of employment at ADA University. 
(3) For each employee that left the University, the Department will inform the Office of Quality 
Assurance and Accreditation about the employee’s last day of employment at the University 
and the reason for his/her separation from the University (if provided). 
(4) The Department will furthermore submit any updated information (such as a change in 
position of an employee) to the Office by the end of the first month of each semester. 
(5) The Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation will add all the information received from 
the Department to the database. 
j. Office of Global Outreach and Partners: 
(1) The Office will provide detailed information on students participating in exchange programs 
to the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation by the end of each semester or term. 
(2) For each outgoing student, this information must include his/her level (undergraduate or 
graduate) and academic program; the type (such as ERASMUS+) and name of the 
exchange program; and the name and country of the respective host institution. 
(3) For each incoming student, this information must include his/her level and academic 
program; the type and name of the exchange program; and the name and country of the 
respective home university. 
(4) The Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation will add all the information received from 
the Office of Global Outreach and Partners to the database. 
k. Career Services and Alumni Affairs: 
(1) These administrative units must provide information to the Office of Quality Assurance and 
Accreditation on the work experience of the students that graduated from the University 
during the preceding academic year and that were seeking employment. This information 
must be submitted by the end of January and the end of July of each academic year. For

=== PAGE 8 ===
each graduate, this information must include his/her status (employed or unemployed), and 
if employed, the name of the current employing entity; the type of employment (full-time, 
part-time, self-employed, internship); the employment sector; the country of employment; 
the starting date of the first employment after graduation; the employee’s position; and 
his/her initial salary (if provided). 
(2) By the same deadlines, and for the same cohort of graduates and reporting period, these 
administrative units will furthermore submit information on the students that graduated from 
the University and that were not seeking employment. For each graduate, this information 
must specifically indicate if he/she is pursuing another degree or doing military service 
during the first year after graduation. 
(3) These administrative units will furthermore gather qualitative feedback from those students 
that graduated from the University during the preceding academic year. This information 
must be submitted to the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation by the end of 
January and the end of July of each academic year and include (for each graduate) an 
assessment of his/her learning experiences and personal development during his/her 
studies at ADA University; of major competencies acquired during that time; and of his/her 
preparedness for the world of employment. It must also include (for each graduate) 
suggestions for potential improvements of the University and its offerings (if provided). 
(4) These administrative units will also gather qualitative feedback from employers that hired 
students of the University that graduated during the preceding academic year. This 
information must be submitted to the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation by the 
end of July of each academic year and include (for each employer) his/her general 
satisfaction with the University’s graduates as well as an assessment of their 
competencies, their personal development, and their preparedness for their new position. 
It must also include (for each employer) an evaluation of the University’s graduates over 
the preceding years (if applicable) and suggestions for potential improvements of the 
University and its offerings (if provided). 
(5) The information provided by these administrative units must indicate the total number of 
graduates and the total number of employers that received their employment surveys as 
well as the number of graduates and the number of employers that responded to these 
surveys. 
(6) The Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation will add all the information received from 
these administrative units to the database. 
l. The Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation and/or members of the University’s senior 
management may request additional data from any of the administrative and academic units 
mentioned above whenever necessary. 
 
4.3 Data Reporting 
a. Data reporting is the responsibility of the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation. 
b. The reports prepared by the Office must be based on a clear, uniform and modularized structure 
(a Report Template can be found in Appendix II of ADA University’s Academic Quality 
Assurance Standards and Guidelines). This structure includes (1) the report’s title and date and 
the reporting period, (2) a short introduction that describes the purpose of and the area covered 
by the report, (3) a short overview of the report’s most relevant results, (4) tables and charts 
presenting more detailed results and data (including explanations for each table and chart, if 
required), (5) more detailed comments on the report and its results (if required), (6) a legend 
explaining relevant terms and/or abbreviations, and (7) copyright information. 
c. All reports must be current and be based on the University’s Academic Performance and Quality 
Assurance Database. They must provide a comprehensive and coherent overview of their

=== PAGE 9 ===
respective areas, including all relevant data while omitting any superfluous information. More 
specifically, they must cover all the (key) performance indicators that are delineated (for each 
area and report) in chapters 4.3.g to 4.3.v below. Further performance indicators may be added 
to a report, provided that they contribute to the meaningful assessment of the University’s 
performance in the area covered by the respective report. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
must be clearly identified as such in each report. 
d. Reports must present data in a meaningful, interrelated, accessible and comprehensible 
manner. They must provide absolute numbers as well as percentages (whenever appropriate), 
use both tables and charts, and avoid any isolated data and information. All the data used in a 
report must consistently add up to transparent and conclusive totals throughout the report. If 
any data is omitted in any table or chart of a report (to reduce complexity and improve 
readability), the report must provide conclusive explanations in the respective table or chart 
legend. 
e. The Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation will thus ensure that its reports serve as 
useful guidelines for internal quality assurance and decision-making. The structure and 
meaningfulness of all the reports prepared by the Office will be assessed (and potentially 
improved) by the Quality Assurance Committee at the end of each academic year. 
f. The Office will submit each report to the members of the University Senate, to the members of 
the Committee of Faculty Affairs, to the administrative and academic units that provided data 
for the respective report, and to the Quality Assurance Committee (the latter will use the reports 
submitted by the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation according to the procedures 
delineated in chapter 6 of the University’s general Academic Quality Assurance Policy). Reports 
must be submitted no later than 2 weeks after the deadline(s) for the relevant dataset(s) 
mentioned above in chapter 4.2. 
g. The Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation will annually prepare an Application Report 
that covers the current academic year and the four preceding years. For each of these years, 
this report must present at least the following information: the total number of applications and 
the total number of applicants (KPI) for the University; the number and percentage of applicants 
who prioritized ADA University in the SEC application process (KPI) for any of the University’s 
degree programs; the number of applications and the number and percentage of prioritizing 
applicants per degree program; the number of applicants and the number and percentage of 
prioritizing applicants for different entry score groups per program; the range and average entry 
scores of all applicants and of all prioritizing applicants (KPI) per program; the names of the 15 
schools that provided the highest number of applicants; and the citizenship (Azerbaijani or 
international; KPI) and the origin (Baku or region in Azerbaijan) of all applicants and all 
prioritizing applicants per degree program and for the entire University. The report must 
distinguish between the number of applications and the number of applicants since one 
applicant can submit several applications for different degree programs to the University. 
h. The Office will annually prepare an Acceptance Report that covers the current academic year 
and the four preceding years. For each of these years, this report must present at least the 
following information: the total number of accepted students per level (undergraduate and 
graduate); the number of accepted students per degree program; the number and percentage 
of accepted students per admission type (such as SEC university admission test, SAT test, ADA 
School, or transfer from another institution of higher education); the number and percentage of 
accepted students for different entry score groups per level and program; the range and average 
entry scores of accepted students per program (KPI) and level; the total number of students 
accepted based on a scholarship or stipend and (divided into programs) the number and 
percentage of accepted students for each scholarship and stipend type and for each individual 
scholarship and stipend; the total number of accepted students with a special status and (divided

=== PAGE 10 ===
into programs) the number and percentage of accepted students with a special status and for 
different status groups; the number and percentage of accepted Azerbaijani and of accepted 
international students (KPI); and (divided into different English language test types) the number 
and percentage of accepted students for different score groups. 
i. For each semester and term, the Office will prepare an Enrollment Report that covers the current 
academic year and the four preceding years. For each of the semesters and terms covered, the 
report must present information on the number of active students per student type, level 
(undergraduate and graduate), and degree program. It must also include information on the 
number and percentage of students per student status category (excluding AS) for the entire 
University and divided into different levels and programs. Special emphasis must be placed on 
the number and percentage of retained students (KPI), of students dismissed for academic 
reasons, and of students voluntarily separating from the University (for the entire University and 
divided into different levels and programs). It must also indicate the number of visiting students 
(KPI) and of non-degree students. For each Fall semester, the report must furthermore include 
the number and percentage of accepted students that enrolled at the University. 
j. For each semester and term, the Office will prepare a Grade Distribution Report that covers the 
current academic year and the four preceding years. For each of these years, and divided into 
semesters and terms, these reports must present at least the following information: the total 
number of graded students and the number and percentage of students per letter grade for the 
entire University (KPI); the total number of graded students and the number and percentage of 
students per letter grade for each program (including the General Education Program and the 
EAPP Program; KPI); the total number of graded students and the number and percentage of 
students per letter grade for each degree program (including the General Education Program), 
divided into student years of study; the highest numbers of students for the highest (A and A-) 
and lowest letter grades (F, FX and FZ) among all teachers (including their respective courses); 
as well as (divided into degree programs, the General Education Program and the EAPP 
Program) the number of students per letter grade for all individual courses (including the 
respective courses’ teachers). The latter must also include the average term GPA for the 
respective group of students within each letter grade category. The report must furthermore 
indicate the total number of graded students and the number and percentage of students per 
letter grade for Master Theses and Capstone Projects (for the entire University and divided into 
degree programs) as well as the failure rate (KPI) for the entire University and for each degree 
program (including the General Education Program). Information on the highest numbers of 
students for the highest and lowest letter grades and the number of students per letter grade for 
courses will only cover the current semester or term. 
k. For each semester and term, the Office will prepare an Undergraduate Term GPA Report and 
a Graduate Term GPA Report that cover the current academic year and the four preceding 
years. For each of the semesters and terms covered, these reports must present at least the 
following information: the total number of graded students and the average term GPA and the 
average cumulative GPA for the entire University and for each degree program (including the 
General Education Program, if applicable; KPI); the number and percentage of students per 
term GPA range and cumulative GPA range for the entire University and for each degree 
program (including the General Education Program); and (for the entire University and divided 
into degree programs) the average term GPA and the average cumulative GPA for all first-year 
and all second-year to fourth-year students (Undergraduate Term GPA Report), or for all first-
year and all second-year students (Graduate Term GPA Report). 
l. For each semester and term, the Office will prepare an EAPP Performance Report that covers 
the current academic year and the four preceding years. For each of the semesters and terms 
covered, the report must present information on the total number of students enrolled, the

=== PAGE 11 ===
number of students newly enrolled, and the number of students enrolled that are late to 
graduate; on the grade distribution (KPI) for each EAPP level (for details, see ADA University’s 
English for Academic and Professional Purposes Regulations); on the number and percentage 
of students that graduated on time and those that graduated late (KPI); and on the number and 
percentage of students dismissed for academic reasons (KPI). For all items, the report must 
distinguish between students that are/were expected to complete the Program within one 
semester and within one year. 
m. For each semester and term, the Office will prepare an Academic Standing Report that covers 
the current academic year and the four preceding years. For each of the semesters and terms 
covered, the report must present information on the total number of students and the number of 
undergraduate students and of graduate students considered; on the number and percentage 
of students per academic standing category (KPI) for the entire University and divided into 
different levels (undergraduate and graduate) and degree programs; on the number and 
percentage of students in each term GPA and cumulative GPA range for each academic 
standing category; and on the number and percentage of students per academic standing 
category for each student semester of study. 
n. For each semester and term, the Office will prepare a Scholarship Report that covers the current 
academic year and the four preceding years. For each of these years, and divided into 
semesters and terms, these reports must present at least the following information: the total 
number and percentage of students receiving a scholarship and the number and percentage of 
students receiving a scholarship per degree program (including the number and percentage of 
students per scholarship type and individual scholarship); a comparison between the final 
average cumulative GPA of those students receiving a scholarship and those without a 
scholarship, divided into scholarship types and individual scholarships (and specifically 
indicating those students that received a scholarship based on their entry scores; KPI); the 
number and percentage of students receiving a scholarship per term GPA range (and 
differentiating between different scholarships); a comparison of the average term GPA’s 
development between students with and without a scholarship; and the financial resources 
allocated to scholarships, to each scholarship type and to each individual scholarship. 
o. The Office will prepare an Exchange Program Report at the end of each semester and term. 
The report must cover the current academic year and the four preceding years. For each of 
these years, and divided into semesters and terms, this report must present at least the following 
information: the number and percentage of undergraduate students and of graduate students 
and the total number and percentage of students of ADA University that participated in exchange 
programs (KPI); the number of incoming undergraduate students and of incoming graduate 
students and the total number of incoming students (KPI); the number and percentage of 
outgoing students and of incoming students per level (undergraduate and graduate) and per 
academic program (KPI); the number of outgoing students and of incoming students per country 
and per partner institution; and the average cumulative GPA of outgoing students before their 
participation in the respective exchange program. 
p. The Office will annually prepare a Graduation Report that covers the preceding five years. For 
each of these years, this report must present information on the total number of undergraduate 
students and of graduate students that graduated from the University; on the number of students 
that graduated from each of the University’s degree programs; on the number and percentage 
of regular and late graduation (graduation rate; KPI) for the University and for each level 
(undergraduate and graduate) and program (including the number and percentage of late 
graduates for each additional semester required); and on the average final cumulative GPA 
(KPI) per level and program for each of the academic years covered by the report.

=== PAGE 12 ===
q. For each semester, the Office will prepare a Course and Faculty Evaluation Report that covers 
the current semester and the corresponding Fall or Spring semester of the four preceding years. 
For each of the semesters covered, the report must (for the entire University and divided into 
Schools, the General Education Program and the EAPP Program) present information on the 
total number of students enrolled in courses after the end of the respective withdrawal period 
and the number and percentage of student responses to the survey. For each quantitative 
question (and for the entire University and divided into Schools, the General Education Program 
and the EAPP Program) it must indicate the number and percentage for each answer option 
(KPI). For all qualitative questions combined, and covering the entire University, it must indicate 
the 5 most frequently mentioned referents (components of the teaching and learning process 
that students referred to in their comments) and (for each of these referents) a maximum of 10 
keywords that students used most frequently to describe the referent in a positive or negative 
manner (including the number and percentage of responses per keyword). It must additionally 
include an overview of those referents with which students (in their qualitative responses) were 
most satisfied and most dissatisfied (including the number and percentage of positive or 
negative responses for each of these referents; KPI). For each question, the report must 
furthermore indicate each course with a positive or negative response rate of 50% or more out 
of an overall response rate (for this question and course) of at least 30%. For these courses, 
this information must also include the number of enrolled students after the withdrawal period, 
the name of the teacher, and the development of positive or negative response rates over the 
previous semesters covered by the report (if the course was offered by the same teacher). 
r. The Office will annually prepare a Research Report that covers the current academic year and 
the four preceding years. For each of these years, the report must (for the entire University and 
divided into Schools, the General Education Program and the EAPP Program) present 
information on the number of publications in different publication categories, namely books 
published internationally (KPI); books published nationally; edited books published 
internationally (KPI); edited books published nationally; articles published in indexed journals 
(divided into different indexing databases and indicating the average journal impact factor for 
the respective articles counted; KPI); articles published in non-indexed journals; book articles 
published internationally (including encyclopedia entries; KPI); book articles published nationally 
(including encyclopedia entries); contributions to international conferences (KPI); contributions 
to national conferences; miscellaneous international publications; miscellaneous national 
publications. For each of these categories, the report must indicate the number of co-authored 
publications or conference contributions. The report must also include the number of full-time 
and part-time faculty per School, the General Education Program and the EAPP Program and 
the average number of publications per faculty member for each publication category and 
School (divided into full-time and part-time faculty; co-authored publications are only counted 
once per School; KPI) as well as the total amount of research time available to the respective 
group of faculty for one academic year. The report must furthermore enlist all patents obtained 
(including the recipient of each patent, his/her School, General Education Program or EAPP 
Program affiliation, the invention for which the patent was granted, and the name and country 
of the granting authority). For each School, the General Education Program and the EAPP 
Program, the report must also present information on the total number of ongoing research 
projects and the average number of ongoing research projects per full-time equivalent of faculty 
(KPI). This information must distinguish between projects that are to be published internationally 
and nationally (including conference contributions), between different publication formats 
(including conference contributions), and between individual and collaborative projects. For 
each School, the General Education Program and the EAPP Program, the report must moreover 
present information on the amount of external research funding acquired; on the total amount

=== PAGE 13 ===
of funding as well as on the average amount of funding per full-time equivalent of faculty 
received from the University’s Faculty Research and Development Fund; and (divided into 
different publication formats and including conference contributions) on the number of 
international and of national publications (and on the number of ongoing research projects) that 
were (are) supported by the Faculty Research and Development Fund. This information must 
be an aggregate of five academic years (including the current year) and present the same 
aggregate information for each year covered by the report. For each School, the General 
Education Program and the EAPP Program, the report must present information on the total 
amount of rewards as well as on the average amount of rewards per full-time equivalent of 
faculty received from the University’s Research Reward Program. 
s. The Office will prepare a Faculty and Course Planning Report at the end of each semester 
(Summer term must be included in the Fall semester report). The report must cover the current 
academic year and the four preceding years. For each of these years, and divided into 
semesters and terms, this report must provide information on the student/faculty ratio (KPI) for 
the entire University and for each School and degree program (including the General Education 
Program and the EAPP Program), which is based on the full-time equivalent of all enrolled 
students divided by the full-time equivalent of faculty. It must also indicate the average number 
of students per course for the entire University and for each School and degree program (KPI; 
including the General Education Program and the EAPP Program). The report must furthermore 
enlist all courses whose number of enrolled students differed by 20% or more from the 
envisaged number of participants as well as all courses that were cancelled due to a low number 
of enrolled students. 
t. The Office will prepare a Faculty Performance Report at the end of each academic year. For the 
respective year, the report must (for the entire University and divided into Schools, the General 
Education Program and the EAPP Program) present information on the average percentage of 
regular teaching load fulfilled per faculty member (KPI); on the total amount of research time 
available to faculty and on the number of publications and of ongoing research projects (divided 
into books and further publications or projects, including conference contributions); as well as 
on the average number of functions per faculty member fulfilled in service to the University. The 
report must also (for each faculty member and divided into Schools, the General Education 
Program and the EAPP Program) include information on the regular teaching hours and the 
teaching hours delivered (including the percentage of regular teaching hours delivered and the 
name of each course taught); on the time allocated for research and on all publications and 
ongoing research projects; and on further functions fulfilled in service to the University. 
u. The Office will prepare a Personnel Information Report at the beginning of each semester. The 
report must provide information on the total number of personnel and on personnel newly hired 
during the respective reporting period (the preceding semester; Summer term must be included 
in the Fall semester report). This information must differentiate between employment categories 
(faculty or staff) and for each category, between employment types (full-time, part-time, 
associate, adjunct, visiting), the number and percentage of male and female employees, the 
number and percentage of Azerbaijani and international (KPI) employees, position(s) of 
employment, School affiliation (for faculty only) or Office affiliation (for staff only), and highest 
academic degrees (KPI) earned (including the percentage for each degree). Divided into 
employment categories, the report must also include information on the number of employees 
that left the University (KPI) during the respective reporting period. 
v. The Office will prepare a Graduate Employment and Employability Report at the end of each 
academic year. The report must cover the previous academic year and the four preceding years. 
For each of these years, and differentiating between levels (undergraduate or graduate), the 
report must include at least the following information: the total number of graduates that obtained

=== PAGE 14 ===
a degree from the University during these years; the number and percentage of graduates that 
were seeking and the number and percentage of graduates that were not seeking employment; 
the status (employed or unemployed; KPI), type of employment (full-time, part-time, self-
employed or internship), and employment sector of those that were seeking employment 
(including percentages for each of these categories); and the number of graduates that were 
not seeking employment and are pursuing another degree or are doing military service during 
the current academic year (including percentages for each of these categories). The report must 
also present information on feedback received from graduates and from employers on the 
employability of graduates. The latter must include a general evaluation of the University’s 
graduates (by employers) as well as assessments (by employers and graduates) of their 
competencies, personal development, preparedness for their new position, and potential 
suggestions for improvements of the University and its offerings. The report must furthermore 
include the number and percentage of graduates and of employers that responded to the 
surveys conducted by the University’s Career Services and Alumni Affairs during the current 
academic year. 
w. Members of the University’s senior management may request additional reports from the Office 
of Quality Assurance and Accreditation whenever necessary. They may also submit a request 
for the modification of an existing report. Such requests must be submitted in written form to the 
Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation and state the rationale behind the request. The 
Office may further consult with the submitting member(s) of the senior management before 
setting up a new report or implementing modification(s) requested to an existing report. 
x. The Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation is responsible for the comprehensive and 
transparent presentation of relevant information on the University’s website. For this purpose, it 
must closely cooperate with the Office of IT and Information Services. Further details on the 
disclosure of information on the University’s website can be found in its Personal Data Usage 
and Public Information Policy.