

===== PAGE 1 =====
1 | P a g e 
1. DOCUMENT FORMAT REGULATIONS 

1. Purpose 
 
Academic quality and the assurance of academic quality are based on the regular, systematic and 
comprehensive implementation, evaluation and improvement of existing and the development and 
implementation of new formal documents as well as on the assessment and enhancement of 
corresponding outcomes. These documents serve as precise specifications of standards and guidelines, 
principles and propositions, rules, processes, structures and intended outcomes. The purpose of this 
regulation is to set forth clear rules for the format of such specifications. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This regulation applies to all the documents related to academic quality and quality assurance at ADA 
University. 
 
Any member or group of members of ADA University intending to develop or modify an academic quality 
or quality assurance document is expected to be thoroughly familiar with this regulation and the 
respective policy (see chapters 2 to 5 of Appendix I) and to consult widely throughout the process of 
document development or modification. 

3. Definitions 
 
At ADA University, the following types of documents are used as academic quality and quality assurance 
specifications: 
1. A Quality Standard is an established norm that outlines general criteria for excellence. 
2. Quality Guidelines detail requirements for the implementation and assessment of quality. 
3. A Statement represents a declaration of fundamental principles. 
4. Policies are statements of intent. As such, they prescribe a course of action to be taken. A policy 
statement thus includes a structured approach to and detailed steps for its implementation 
(Procedures). 
5. Regulations are structured directives describing rules and/or proceedings. 
6. Handbooks are reference manuals that provide essential and comprehensive information relevant to 
a specific area and group of members of ADA University. 

4. Document Format Rules 
 
4.1 All documents must be written in English. 
4.2 All documents must use clear and unambiguous language and appropriate terminology. 
4.3 Quality standards and quality guidelines must be written according to the following rules: 
a. A quality standard formulates condensed descriptions of the norms that are intended to inform 
the implementation, assessment and enhancement of academic quality in the area covered by 
the standard.


===== PAGE 2 =====
2 | P a g e 
b. Quality guidelines further specify quality standards. They present a systematic, detailed and 
comprehensive overview of quality requirements that are equally meant to inform the processes 
of quality implementation, assessment and enhancement. Guidelines are introduced by a brief 
delineation of their context and rationale. 
4.4 The first three parts of a statement, policy, regulation or handbook must be arranged according to 
the following structure: 
a. Part 1 clearly formulates the purpose of the document (including its context and/or its rationale). 
b. Part 2 delineates the scope and relevant recommendations. The scope of a document includes 
the area it aims to cover and (if applicable) the members of ADA University it directly addresses. 
c. Part 3 presents a precise formulation of relevant definitions. 
4.5 The subsequent part(s) of a statement, policy, regulation or handbook depend(s) on the respective 
document type: 
a. Statements put forward fundamental principles applicable to the area covered by the respective 
statement. 
b. Policies provide precise, systematic, detailed and comprehensive procedural guidelines, 
offering step-by-step instruction for policy implementation. 
c. Regulations define precise rules and/or proceedings applicable to the area covered by the 
respective regulation. 
d. Handbooks systematically compile and present essential information that allows for a 
comprehensive overview of the area covered by the handbook. These documents are geared 
towards a specific group of members of ADA University. 
4.6 The parts mentioned in 4.5 may also include any further information that those members of ADA 
University involved in the process of document development or modification deem necessary, 
provided that it is relevant to the area covered by the respective document. This applies to all of 
the document types addressed in 4.5 

5. Assuring Document Quality 
 
5.1 Compliance with ADA University’s Document Format Regulations must be confirmed by the Office 
of Quality Assurance and Accreditation before an academic quality or quality assurance document 
may be submitted for approval to any decision-making body of ADA University. 
5.2 Formal adjustments proposed by the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation must be 
implemented in close cooperation with the document’s proposers.
