=== PAGE 1 ===
3.4.2 FACULTY RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT FUND AND REGULATIONS 

1. Purpose 
 
The continuous enhancement of research and of the academic qualification of its faculty is an integral 
part of ADA University’s vision of academic excellence. The purpose of this document is to delineate 
funding opportunities for faculty that are intended to support their research activities and their continued 
professional development. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This regulation covers funding opportunities provided by ADA University’s Faculty Research and 
Development Fund and by the ERASMUS+ program Staff Mobility for Teaching. 
 
Any faculty member who seeks funding for research and/or professional development is expected to be 
thoroughly familiar with the regulations delineated in this document. In case a faculty member intends 
to apply for an ERASMUS+ grant, he/she is also strongly recommended to consult relevant ERASMUS+ 
websites for further information and conditions. 

3. Definitions 
 
The Faculty Research and Development Fund is a funding mechanism established by ADA University. 
It is intended to provide a dedicated and uniform source of funding and thus to create incentives for 
faculty, both standing and new, to pursue research activities and professional development. 

4. Faculty Research and Development Fund 
 
4.1 Research and Conference Funding 
a. Each faculty member in the rank of Assistant or Associate Professor who has newly joined ADA 
University is entitled to base level research funding. Assistant Professors are entitled to 1,500 
AZN; Associate Professors to 2,500 AZN. 
b. Each standing faculty member in the rank of Assistant or Associate Professor who meets the 
minimum requirements during the annual evaluation and whose teaching load does not increase 
due to research inactivity is entitled to merit-based funding. Assistant Professors may receive 
up to 4,000 AZN; Associate Professors up to 5,000 AZN. Criteria for the evaluation of faculty 
are delineated in ADA University’s Faculty Development, Evaluation and Promotion Policy. 
c. Funding will be provided in 2 installments. The amount of each installment will be determined 
based on the submitted research proposal. 
d. Funding can be used for research activities and for conference participation. It may be used to 
cover costs associated with: 
(1) the conduct of research (for example conducting surveys and/or experiments, purchasing 
specialized software and/or databases, purchasing research-related materials and/or 
supplies, collecting and analyzing data);

=== PAGE 2 ===
(2) publication (for example editing, proofreading, open access fees); 
(3) conference presentations (travel and registration fees). Conference travel awards are 
intended to defray the cost of travel to professional conferences dedicated to the field of a 
faculty member. Funding requires that at least one paper is presented at the conference. 
e. All items purchased with funding are property of ADA University. All payments will be made by 
the University. No reimbursement will be made for expenses paid for by a faculty member. No 
retroactive requests for reimbursement will be granted. 
f. In addition to applying for University funding, faculty are expected to pursue external sources of 
funding. 
 
4.2 Requirements for the Submission of Grant Applications 
a. Faculty applying for a research grant are required to submit a research proposal that must 
include the following information: 
(1) a clear indication of the significance of the research; 
(2) a clear statement of research objectives, of the expected timeline, and of expected 
outcomes of the research project; 
(3) an itemized budget with supporting justification of expenses; 
(4) any additional documentation that may support the application; 
(5) a detailed description of other support and/or funding of the project (if available). 
b. Faculty who wish to apply for conference grants are required to provide the following information: 
(1) a description of the conference; 
(2) a copy of the presentation proposal submitted to the conference; 
(3) a confirmation of conference participation (acceptance letter); 
(4) an estimated budget. 
c. Submissions for grant applications will be accepted on a rolling basis. Faculty are requested to 
submit all components of their application electronically as one PDF file to the Dean of their 
respective School. 
 
4.3 Review of Applications and Approval of Grants 
a. Each Dean will forward grant applications received from faculty members of his/her School to 
the Committee of Faculty Affairs. 
b. A panel of the Committee of Faculty Affairs will (together with the respective Dean) review and 
make a recommendation on each application. 
c. The entire Committee will afterwards select those applications that are (together with the 
corresponding recommendations) to be submitted for approval to the Vice Rector of Academic 
Affairs. 
d. The final decision on the approval of grants will be made by the Vice Rector of Academic Affairs, 
who must thoroughly consider the recommendations provided by the Committee and Deans. 
 
4.4 Reporting Regulations 
a. Faculty members are expected to prepare a brief report on the activities and outcomes 
supported by the funding received from ADA University. This report must be submitted to the 
Vice Rector of Academic Affairs within 30 days after the end of the grant period. 
b. All future funding is contingent on the submission of the respective report. 
c. Any funds remaining at the end of the grant period will be automatically returned to the Faculty 
Research and Development Fund. 
 
4.5 Research Seminar Funds 
a. Each School receives funding of 5,000 AZN per year for the organization of research seminars.

=== PAGE 3 ===
b. These funds can be used to invite faculty members from other universities in order to give a 
research presentation or offer a lecture or workshop to students of ADA University and an 
external audience. 
c. A brief report on the activities and outcomes of each research seminar is to be submitted to the 
Vice Rector of Academic Affairs within 30 days of the seminar date. 
 
4.6 Research Reward Program 
a. The Research Reward Program aims to honor the efforts and accomplishments of the 
University’s researchers. 
b. It is furthermore intended to encourage faculty members to actively conduct research that is 
internationally recognized and thus to enhance the University’s international reputation as a 
center of excellence in research. 
c. The University’s Research Reward Program is outlined in the document Research Reward 
Program and Regulations. 
 
4.7 Professional Development Grants 
a. The University actively supports and funds the professional development and further 
qualification of its faculty. 
b. Funding can be used for the following purposes: 
(1) participation in professional workshops and seminars; 
(2) payment for professional licenses or certification fees; 
(3) membership in professional organizations. 
c. A faculty member who applies for any of the purposes mentioned in 4.7.b must provide an 
explanation of how its achievement would further his/her professional and/or scholarly work. 
d. A brief report on activities undertaken and outcomes achieved is to be submitted to the Vice 
Rector of Academic Affairs within 30 days after the completion of the activity or the achievement 
of the outcome. 

5. ERASMUS+ Staff Mobility for Teaching 
 
5.1 As part of the ERASMUS+ program Staff Mobility for Teaching, full-time faculty of ADA University 
have the opportunity to teach at partner institutions of higher education abroad. 
5.2 With its participation in the ERASMUS+ program, ADA University pursues the following objectives: 
a. to support the professional development of faculty members with a view to innovate and improve 
the quality of teaching; 
b. to encourage faculty members to broaden and enrich the range and content of their courses; 
c. to promote the exchange of expertise and experience on pedagogical methods; 
d. to create and strengthen links between ADA University and other institutions of higher 
education; to consolidate and expand relationships between departments; to prepare future 
cooperation projects. 
5.3 For each teaching mobility period, calls for applications will be sent to all full-time faculty members. 
In order to apply, faculty members are requested to use ADA University’s online application form. 
5.4 The evaluation of applications will be performed by an Evaluation Committee, which shall be 
comprised of no less than three members. The members of the Committee will be appointed by the 
Vice Rector of Academic Affairs. 
5.5 The Evaluation Committee assesses and scores each application. The purpose of the evaluation 
process is to assess applications in relation to the objectives mentioned in 5.2. For this purpose,

=== PAGE 4 ===
each application is evaluated against a set of detailed selection criteria that will be included in each 
call for applications. For each selection criterion, applications will receive a certain score. 
5.6 Those applicants with the highest overall scores will receive the ERASMUS+ mobility grants that 
are available for the respective teaching mobility period. In case two or more applicants receive the 
same score, the following rules will be applied (in the order in which they are mentioned): 
a. Priority will be given to the applicant who has so far not participated in (or participated less in) 
the Staff Mobility for Teaching program. 
b. Priority will be given to the applicant who has (based on the number of days) more teaching 
experience at ADA University. 
5.7 ERASMUS+ mobility grants contribute to the costs for travel and subsistence. The travel allowance 
is independent of the price of travel tickets and is instead based on the distance between the home 
and the respective partner university. It is calculated as a round trip, using the ERASMUS+ Distance 
Calculator at: erasmus-plus.ec.europa.eu/resources-and-tools/distance-calculator. Grants may not 
cover all the costs associated with a visit to another institution of higher education. 
5.8 Faculty members participating in the Staff Mobility for Teaching program will continue to receive 
their regular salaries while visiting the host university. 
5.9 A brief report on the activities undertaken at a host university is to be submitted to the Vice Rector 
of Academic Affairs within 30 days of the completion of each visit. The report must include all 
receipts for travel and subsistence.