

===== PAGE 1 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 
No. 4240 
V2.0 Rev.2 
Effective Date: June 13, 2025 

NO. 4240 FELLOWSHIPS 
4241. Alimardan Bay Topchubashov International Fellowship ................................................... 2 
 
 4242. International Fellowship for the School of Education …………………………………....3


===== PAGE 2 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 
Fellowships 

4241. Alimardan Bay Topchubashov International Fellowship 
1.1. Alimardan Bay Topchubashov International Fellowship is open to all international 
(non-Azerbaijani citizens) undergraduate and graduate applicants who have been 
admitted to one of ADA University’s degree-granting schools. 
1.2. Incoming undergraduate and graduate fellows are eligible to receive the following 
benefits for the first semester of their studies: 
1.2.1. a 100 percent tuition fee waiver 
1.2.2. housing fee for the dormitory chosen by the University (the housing fee cannot 
be transferred to a student account directly or used for another purpose) 
1.2.3. a yearly medical insurance 
1.2.4. stipend amounting to 400 AZN per month for Fall semester (September - 
January) and Spring semester (February-June) if a student resides in Baku, 
Azerbaijan, Students admitted as of Fall 2025 are not granted the monthly 
stipend. 
1.3. Students awarded with Alimardan Bay Topchubashov International Fellowship must 
graduate within normative study period – that is, 5 years (10 semesters) after their 
admission for undergraduate students if they are enrolled to EAPP program or 4 years 
(8 semesters) after their admission if they are directly enrolled to a degree program 
and 2 years (4 semesters) after their admission for graduate students. Semesters after 
the normative study period are not covered by Alimardan Bay Topchubashov 
International Fellowship. 
1.4. In case of prolongation of the study for documented medical emergencies and/or other 
personal issues out of students’ control, Alimardan Bay Topchubashov International 
Fellowship may be awarded for one additional term only. 
1.5. The fellowship is renewable for undergraduate students when certain criteria are met 
upon availability of funds: 
1.5.1. Returning students must accumulate a term Grade Point Average (GPA) of 2.5 
or higher in undergraduate and 3.00 or higher in graduate programs. Students 
who take a foundation level must successfully pass the level. 
1.5.2. Students must maintain a full load of coursework by attempted hours. Students on 
academic probation are required to take one course fewer than a full course load 
in order to maintain their scholarship. 
1.5.3. Students found in violation of the ADA University Honor Code once will not 
be eligible for international fellowship for the remainder of their tenure at the 
University.


===== PAGE 3 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 
Fellowships 

1.6. Students who do not meet the requirements 1.5.1 and 1.5.2 are subject to fellowship 
probation for the following semester without losing the benefits of the fellowship. 
Students will lose the fellowship benefits only if they do not meet the requirements 
1.5.1 and 1.5.2 for two consecutive terms. The fellowship will be restored from the 
term the requirements are met again. 
1.7. After the Fellowship is restored, point 1.4 applies again. 
1.8. Students who are readmitted to ADA University will not be eligible for international 
fellowship. 
1.9. The summer term fee is not covered by the Alimardan Bay Topchubashov Fellowship. 
1.10. Topshubashov International Fellowship cannot be awarded twice for same student.


===== PAGE 4 =====
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 
Fellowships 

4242. International Fellowship for the School of Education 
 
International Fellowship is open to citizens of Georgia who have been admitted to one of the degree 
programs offered in the Azerbaijani language by the School of Education. 
2. Incoming graduate fellows are eligible to receive the following benefits for the first 
semester of their studies: 
a. 100 percent tuition fee and student fee waiver 
b. Housing fee for the dormitory provided by the University 
c. Stipend amounting to 500 AZN per term – for Fall and Spring 
semester 
d. Emergency insurance is provided upon the relevant need 
2.1 Students awarded with this International Fellowship must graduate within the 
normative study period – 2 years (4 semesters) after their admission. Semesters 
after the normative study period are not covered by this Fellowship. 
2.2 In case of prolongation of the study for documented medical emergencies and/or 
other personal issues out of students’ control, the International Fellowship may be 
awarded for one additional term only. 
2.3 The Fellowship is renewable for graduate students when certain criteria are met 
upon availability of funds: 
2.3.1.1 Returning students must accumulate a term Grade Point Average 
(GPA) of 2.75 or higher in graduate programs. 
2.3.1.2 Students must maintain a full load of coursework by earned hours. 
2.3.1.3 Students found in violation of the ADA University Honor Code once 
will not be eligible for the Fellowship for the remainder of their tenure 
at the University. 
2.4 
Students who do not meet the requirements are subject to fellowship probation for the 
following semester without losing the benefits of the fellowship. Students will lose the 
fellowship benefits only if they do not meet the requirements for two consecutive 
terms. The fellowship will be restored from the term the requirements are met again. 
2.5 
After the Fellowship is restored, requirements apply again. 
2.6 
Students who are readmitted to ADA University will not be eligible for the 
International Fellowship. 
2.7 
The summer term is not covered by the Fellowship.
