=== PAGE 1 ===
ADA University No. 4390 Rev.: 9 
Policy and Procedures Effective date: March 6, 2019

=== PAGE 2 ===
Subject: Haji Zeynalabdin Tagiyev (Hzt) Awards 
At ADA University, we uphold and continue the best traditions of our nation. At the end 
of each academic year, ADA University presents groups of students an important award 
named after Haji Zeynalabdin Taghiyev. Haji Zeynalabdin Taghiyev was Azerbaijan's 
renowned entrepreneur and philanthropist, who invested his wealth in numerous projects 
that benefited the nation. His initiatives and projects helped to modernize Azerbaijan and 
turn it into a showcase of tolerance and intellectual advancement. 
 
Each year, we present HZT Awards in two categories: Challenges of Society and 
Challenges of Industry. 
The purpose of the former is to transform the university into a community, where a sense 
of citizenship and social responsibility is upheld and endorsed. The purpose of the latter is 
to foster a sense of entrepreneurship among our students and help them turn their ideas into 
a venture. 
The prestigious HZT Awards promote such values as civic engagement, social 
responsibility, teamwork, caring for others, daring to have an idea, then, putting that idea 
into an action. 
HZT Award is offered in the amount of 5,000 AZN for each category. The amount is 
divided among the three groups of students whose projects have been selected as finalists. 
• 
First Place: 
2500 AZN  
• 
Second Place: 
1500 AZN  
• 
Third Place: 
1000 AZN  
Eligibility Requirements and Selection Criteria: 
• 
To be eligible, a group of students must devise an initiative which they then develop 
into a feasible project. A minimum of 3 students must participate in each team;  
• 
The project must have a positive impact on ADA University, its immediate 
neighborhood and/or larger society;  
• 
Project must be planned and completed by the members of the team with their own 
resources and without funding support from ADA University;  
• 
Faculty and staff may join students and participate in teams. In such cases, they may 
not use their privileges to gain advantage for their team, neither can they sit on the 
Award Committee.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Haji Zeynalabdin Taghiyev Award

=== PAGE 3 ===
Timelines: 
HZT Award is announced at the beginning of each academic year. All teams must complete 
their projects by no later than April 25. 
An Awards Committee, comprised of faculty, students and staff, reviews the projects and 
selects the finalists by no later than April 30. The HZT Award is presented in May at a gala 
celebration with all ADA community. 
The HZT Award is not linked to GPA at all. In addition, the team winning the award can 
spend it as deemed appropriate by the team members. 
Bank requisites must be submitted by the winners of HZT award no later than 3 months 
after winning of the ceremony for the purpose of transferring the amounts to accounts. If 
winner will fail to do so, then, it will be considered as a rejection of the desire to receive 
an award.