=== PAGE 1 ===
ADA University 
 No. 3000 
Rev.: 10 
 Policy and Procedures 
 Effective date: August 28, 2020 
Subject: Interruption of Studies Due to Temporary Leaves 
A temporary leave is an interruption in studies from the University for a specified period after 
which the student is expected to return. A Temporary Leave is initiated by the student in 
consultation with the student's academic unit. 
 
There are four kinds of temporary leaves: 
 
• general, 
• medical, 
• military, 
• trauma and bereavement leave. 
Medical leave covers only personal health reasons. Family health reasons are covered under a 
general temporary leave. 
Students on temporary leave are not registered with the University; therefore, their use of ADA 
University facilities will be limited to those privileges granted to the public. Students are 
responsible for understanding the implications of a temporary leave for housing, financial aid and 
progress toward the degree. International students are advised that taking a temporary leave may 
affect their student visa status and should consult with the Office of International Students in the 
Office of Student Services. 
Students who do not return at the end of the leave will be automatically separated from the 
University. Separated students must apply for readmission and must meet current admission criteria 
and program requirements. 
 
Students may not take more than two years of leave. 
 
General Temporary Leave 
Students desiring a Temporary Leave should meet with their academic advisor and fill out 
Temporary Leave Request form. The academic unit will approve or deny the Temporary Leave 
request and will notify the Office of Admissions and Student Records when Temporary Leave is 
granted. Students must request the leave no later than the end of add/drop period in the semester in 
which the leave will begin. 
The Temporary Leave becomes void if the student attends any domestic or foreign college or 
university during the period of leave, unless the student obtains a Permit to Study at Another 
Institution or a Medical Permit to Study from the academic unit.

=== PAGE 2 ===
ADA University 
 Policy and Procedures 
Interruption of Studies Due to Temporary Leaves 
 
Medical Temporary Leave 
Students must request a medical leave of absence through their academic advisor and by filling out 
Temporary Leave Request form. The duration of a Medical Temporary Leave may be for up to one 
year for personal health reasons. The student should provide medical documentation that supports 
the requested action together with the form. The approved form will be forwarded for the 
verification to the Office of Admissions and Student Records. 
Student who requests Medical Leave after the end of course withdrawal period will receive 
Incomplete grades from all courses. Such student may resume studies only after resolving all of 
his/her incomplete grades based on Incomplete grade policy. 
 
Military Temporary Leave 
Students may be required to leave the University to fulfill military obligations. In the instance of 
such absences, students must inform their academic advisor and submit the Temporary Leave 
Request form with a copy of their military orders to the Office of Student Records and Registration. 
Students may resume their studies at the University if arrangements are made for their return within 
the first six months following the end of their absence and if the University still offers the degree 
program. They may continue to work for the same degrees in which they were enrolled at the 
interruption of their studies in accordance with the regulations in effect at the time they left. 
 
Trauma and Bereavement Policy 
In the event of a personal tragedy or trauma, students may need to coordinate alternative 
arrangements to complete coursework. Students or their authorized representative may contact the 
academic unit. If students think it is not in their best interest to complete the semester or to return to 
campus the next semester, they may elect to take a Temporary Leave or separate from the 
University.