=== PAGE 1 ===
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 
No. 4220 
V2.0 Rev.2 
Effective Date: June 13, 2025 

NO. 4220 MERIT-BASED SCHOLARSHIPS FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS 
4221. Merit-Based Scholarships for Incoming Graduate Students .............................................. 2 
4222. Merit-Based Scholarships for Returning Graduate Students .............................................. 2

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 
Merit Based Scholarships 
for Graduate Students 

4221. Merit-Based Scholarships for Incoming Graduate Students 
1.1. Incoming graduate students are offered Graduate Assistantship Program scholarship 
for their performance prior to being enrolled at ADA University. 
1.2. Graduate Assistantship Program is awarded to the selected students at the time of 
admissions based on the interview results and test scores. 
1.3. Awarded students will receive 100% tuition waiver upon meeting the below 
requirements: 
1.3.1. Students must maintain Term GPA of 3.0 or above. 
1.3.2. Students must work with designated faculty member no less than 20 hours per 
week in the given semester. 
1.3.3. Students must not have a failing grade (F, NP) in the given semester. 
1.4. The Graduate Assistantship provides tuition fee waiver only, the students are required 
to cover their own student fees separately. 
1.5. Graduate Assistantship Program covers the tuition fees of the courses which are only 
indicated in the PoS of the students and are taken in Fall and Spring semesters. 
1.6. Students awarded with Graduate Assistantship Program must graduate within 
normative study period – that is, 2 years (4 semesters) after their admission. Semesters 
after the normative study period are not covered by Graduate Assistantship Program. 
1.7. In case of prolongation of the study for documented medical emergencies and/or other 
personal issues out of students’ control, Graduate Assistantship Program may be 
awarded for one additional term only. 
1.8. If a student fails to meet the requirements for the continuation of the Graduate 
Assistantship, then the award discontinues for the current term and cannot be 
transferred to another student. Such students who fail to meet the requirements are 
eligible for consideration for continuation of the Graduate Assistantship in the 
following term within the normative study period. 
1.9. The Graduate Assistantship Program is available for students admitted to graduate 
programs offered by School of Public and International Affairs, School of Law and 
School of Education. The Graduate Assistantship Program is not provided for programs 
classified as “qiyabi” by the Cabinet of Ministers. 
4222. Merit-Based Scholarships for Returning Graduate Students 
2.1. Finance Office announces a list of students who receive honors and distinctions at the 
end of each semester. Top 10 percent of each graduate class gets included on these 
lists and receives scholarships.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 
Merit Based Scholarships 
for Graduate Students 

2.2. Students scoring the highest 4.00 GPA in each program and class are granted with 
Rector’s List of Honor scholarship and receives 20% waiver off their tuition. 
2.3. Students scoring in the Top 10% of each program and class are granted with List of 
High-Performance scholarship and receives 20% waiver off their tuition. 
2.4. Students must maintain a full-load coursework by earned hours and must have 
minimum term GPA 3.0 to be eligible for Merit Based Scholarships. 
2.5. Students found in violation of the ADA University Honor Code once will not be 
eligible for scholarship for the remainder of their tenure at the University. 
2.6. If a student has one failing grade (F, NP) in the given semester, he/she is not eligible 
for merit-based scholarship. 
2.7. Cumulative GPA may be referred to when two or more students have the same GPA. 
2.8. Scholarship is awarded by GPA in effect as of the day of final grades due date. 
2.9. Grades of graduate students studying in an exchange program at another institution are 
not calculated in GPA. Therefore, they are not considered for a merit-based 
scholarship. 
2.10. Students who are awarded with scholarships will be provided by Certificate of 
Achievement from their School side. 
2.11. Students are eligible to earn only one scholarship and/or exemption per semester. 
The scholarship and/or exemption which provides the highest tuition waiver for a 
student is awarded each semester. 
2.12. Merit-based scholarships are not transferable across semesters. 
2.13. Scholarships awarded to returning graduate students who take an academic leave in 
the subsequent semester of the scholarship earned will remain in students’ accounts 
for the period of academic leave for maximum 2 years. The scholarship amount will 
be applied to the first term of study when the student returns to register for the classes. 
Merit-based scholarships are not transferable across semesters in all other 
circumstances.