=== PAGE 1 ===
NO. 4270 FINANCIAL AID 
 
4271. Need-Based Financial Aid ................................................................................................ 2 
4272. Work Study Program ......................................................................................................... 3 
4273. Annex 1 – List of Supporting Documents for Need-Based Financial Aid........................ 4 

No. 4270 
 V2.0 Rev.1 
Effective Date: September 1, 2022 
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures

4271. Need-Based Financial Aid 
1.1. Need-Based Financial Aid scholarship is open for returning students who have faced 
with severe financial problems and are not be able to cover their tuition fee payments 
on time. 
1.2. Need-Based Financial Aid is offered for maximum 75% of tuition fee. Student fee and 
25% of tuition fee are not covered by Need-Based Financial Aid. Alternatively, 
students may be supported with an accommodation chosen by the University side. 
1.3. Students who can apply for Need-Based Financial Aid are listed below: 
1.3.1. Students who have not applied for Need-Based Financial Aid before 
1.3.2. Students who study in all programs other than EAPP program 
1.3.3. Students who maintain a full load coursework at the time of applying for Need-
Based Financial Aid 
1.3.4. Students found in violation of the ADA University Honor Code once will not 
be eligible for Need-Based Financial Aid for the remainder of their tenure at 
the University 
1.4. Eligible students have to follow the below mentioned steps to apply for Need-Based 
Financial Aid: 
1.4.1. Applicant must officially request to apply for Need-Based Financial Aid by 
writing an email to Finance Office (bfa@ada.edu.az) 
1.4.2. Applicants have to fill in the “Need-Based Financial Aid” form and send it to 
the Finance Office (bfa@ada.edu.az) with required supporting documents 
listed in Annex 1 
1.4.3. The application process takes place between September 15 – October 15 in Fall 
semesters and January 15 – February 15 in Spring semesters 
1.4.4. If an applicant misses the deadline, he\she loses the chance to compete for 
Need-Based Financial Aid 
1.4.5. Students must attend an interview organized by Finance Office after their 
applications are accepted 

Financial Aid 
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures

1.4.6. Students must pay at least 25% of their tuition fee and 100% of their student 
fee until the first day of the classes start or apply to the installment payment 
schedule 
1.4.7. No penalty and holds are applied to students’ accounts before the result of 
application is announced only in case if students pay at least 25% of their 
tuition fee and 100% of their student fee until the first day of the classes start 
or apply to the installment payment schedule. 
1.5. Finance Office is responsible to present applications to the Committee for a review 
and recommendation. 
1.6. The Committee gathers for the purpose of reviewing applications for the Need-Based 
Financial Aid, no later than the 10th week of the semester. 
1.7. The result of the application is communicated to the applicant during two business 
days after the Rector approves the recommendations of the Committee. A student 
received rejection has 30 days to cover their debts. 
4272. Work Study Program 
2.1. Each year, ADA University funds a limited number of opportunities for its Work-
Study Program. The Program provides funds for part-time employment to help 
students with real financial needs. The earnings from the Work-Study Program may 
support the cost of their education, living expenses and other financial need that 
contributes to the student’s success while studying at the University. 
2.2. Students must complete a new application for each term that the opportunity is sought. 
2.3. Students should apply in the Finance Office for consideration in this program. The 
Office of Student Services will oversee positions of part-time employment in this 
program. 
2.4. Work-Study students may serve in a variety of positions at the University, such as 
office support, tutoring, or other positions relative to their program of study. Students 
may also be directed to serve in positions outside of the University working in 
community service jobs. 
2.5. The hourly wage for students in this program is determined annually. 

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 
Financial Aid

4273. Annex 1 – List of Supporting Documents for Need-Based Financial 
Aid 
- Official rejection of the loan from Pasha Bank 
- Official documents from workplace of a student indicating monthly salary if 
applicable 
- Official documents from workplace of parents/guardians indicating monthly salary if 
applicable 
- In case of having private business, official verification of income from the tax 
authorities 
- Official letter confirming student’s unemployment status if applicable 
- Official letter confirming parents’/guardians’ unemployment status if applicable 
- Official letter confirming any type of the pension received if applicable. The official 
letter must indicate the amount and reason of the pension 
- Official letter listing all family members 
- Official letter confirming the attendance of a family member in a university 
- Official documents confirming the illness of the student or family members if 
applicable 
- Official letters confirming the disability status of the student or family members if 
applicable 
- Official certificate of death of the parent if applicable 
- Academic performance (Cumulative and Institutional GPA) for the last attended 
semester 
- National ID of the student and parents 
- Certificate of birth of the student 
 
*All letters must be provided by official governmental organizations, preferable by e-sosial.az or e-gov.az government portals 
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 
Financial Aid