=== PAGE 1 ===
6.4.2 PERSONAL DATA USAGE AND 
PUBLIC INFORMATION POLICY 

1. Purpose 
 
ADA University collects, stores and processes data to improve the quality of its academic offerings, to 
facilitate decision-making processes, and to provide relevant information to the public and other relevant 
parties. In this context, it is essential to ensure that data is handled in an ethical manner and according 
to applicable legal regulations. The objective of this policy is to delineate the requirements for the 
collection and storage as well as the processing and usage of data for non-research purposes at ADA 
University. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This document covers the collection, storage, processing and usage of personal data for non-research 
purposes in all areas covered by ADA University’s Academic Quality Assurance Standards and 
Guidelines, namely the academic program (including teaching, learning and assessment), research, 
students (including graduates), faculty and staff. It particularly refers to the rapidly developing field of 
learning analytics whenever appropriate. 
 
All members of ADA University that are dealing with personal data and/or have partial or full access to 
its Academic Performance and Quality Assurance Database and/or its physical archive are expected to 
be thoroughly familiar with this policy and to strictly adhere to its requirements and procedures. 
 
This policy should be read in conjunction with ADA University’s Data Management and Reporting 
Regulations. 

3. Definitions 
 
In accordance with the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan On Personal Data and the European General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Data in this policy is defined as “personal data”. Personal Data 
refers to any information that allows, either directly or indirectly, to identify a natural person. 
 
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a European regulation on the protection of personal 
data throughout the European Union. 
 
A Data Subject is an identified or identifiable natural person whose data is gathered and used. The term 
Subject connotes both that the person is subject to the processes of data collection and usage and that 
it must (for ethical and legal reasons) be considered as an active subject in these processes. 
 
Data Pseudonymization requires that personal data is processed in such a manner that it cannot be 
attributed to a data subject without additional information. Data subjects can still be re-identified by the 
use of such additional information.

=== PAGE 2 ===
Data Anonymization describes a process in which personal data is permanently stripped of all 
information that may lead to the identification of a data subject. 
 
The Academic Performance and Quality Assurance Database serves to collect, organize and keep all 
the quantitative and qualitative information (raw data) required to assess the University’s performance 
in all the areas relevant to the evaluation and improvement of academic quality. 
 
Learning Analytics describes the collection, analysis and usage of data on students and their learning 
activities with the objective of understanding and improving educational processes and providing 
effective support to learners. Learning analytics poses new challenges to the ethical and legal usage of 
data due to the considerably extended scope and amount of data that may be systematically generated 
and gathered by digital information systems. 

4. Data Usage and Protection 
 
4.1 Purposes of Data Gathering and Usage 
a. The collection and usage of data benefits both the institution and its individual members. 
b. Data serves to evaluate the University’s performance in all areas relevant to academic quality. 
These areas include the academic program; teaching, learning and assessment; research; 
students (including graduates); faculty and staff. The analysis of data allows for well-informed 
decisions and for the improvement of the institution’s performance in these areas. 
c. Data serves to support students in their learning activities and progress. Learning analytics and 
the analysis of data enable the University to provide feedback to students and to identify areas 
in which they may (individually or collectively) be in need of additional learning opportunities in 
order to be more successful in their performance. 
d. Data serves to support faculty in their teaching and research activities. The analysis of data 
enables the University to provide feedback to its faculty members and to identify areas in which 
they may (individually or collectively) need to improve and/or may require additional support and 
training opportunities in order to be more successful in their teaching and research. 
e. Data serves to facilitate internal administrative processes. It is used (for example) to organize 
events and certificate programs, to ensure a well-structured process of personnel recruitment, 
and to efficiently communicate throughout the University. 
f. Data is used for the information of relevant stakeholders and thus for the purposes of reporting, 
accountability and transparency (for details, see chapter 5.1 below). 
 
4.2 Legal and Ethical Issues 
a. Infringement on Privacy: In general, the collection and usage of data could infringe upon the 
privacy of a data subject, which is considered to be a fundamental human right. It could infringe 
upon the informational self-determination of that subject, which describes the right to decide 
which information should or should not be disclosed to others. 
b. Re-Identification: More specifically, the collection and usage of data could result in the re-
identification of a data subject by using multiple datasets and by aggregating de-identified data. 
This in particular would violate the right of informational self-determination and allow 
discrimination against individual members of the University. 
c. Lack of Transparency: Data could be collected and used for purposes other than those 
communicated to data subjects. This would further infringe upon the right of informational self-
determination and prevent any intervention on the part of data subjects.

=== PAGE 3 ===
d. Excessiveness of Data: The amount of data gathered could exceed the scope of what is needed 
to fulfill well-founded, clearly defined and explicitly communicated purposes. This would result 
in a further encroachment on the privacy and rights of the data subject. 
e. Inadequacy of Data: The data collected and used could be incorrect. It could misrepresent a 
data subject and/or his/her academic performance and thus unfairly advantage or disadvantage 
certain members of the University. 
f. Unauthorized Access: Members and/or non-members of the University could gain unauthorized 
access to (and use) data stored on the Academic Performance and Quality Assurance Database 
and/or in the University’s physical archive. This would represent a breach of confidentiality and 
infringe upon the individual’s right of informational self-determination. 
g. Reduction: Learning analytics and the focus on data carry the risk of reducing students to a 
certain set of quantitative and/or qualitative information. Yet, data gathered by the University 
can only provide an incomplete picture of individual students, whose needs and performance 
are also influenced by factors that are not covered by the University’s Academic Performance 
and Quality Assurance Database. 
h. Generalization: The use of aggregate data could have adverse effects on individuals. It could 
result in simplification and disregard the specific needs of individual members of the University. 
i. Reinforcement of Bias: The collection and usage of data could impede the positive development 
of students and other members of the University. It could result in oversimplified categorization 
and thus in the perpetuation of ethnic and/or sociocultural stereotypes and in unintended 
discrimination. 
j. Closure: Data could be interpreted in a way that projects the prior academic performance of 
data subjects into the future. This would restrict individual opportunities for development and 
interfere with both the fundamental openness of the future and the principle of equity. 
 
4.3 Requirements and Procedures for Data Usage and Protection 
a. The following requirements and procedures must ensure that data is used in both a legal and 
ethical manner (addressing all the issues mentioned above in chapter 4.2) while, at the same 
time, enabling an efficient use of data (for details, see the University’s Data Management and 
Reporting Regulations) for the purpose of internal quality assurance and for the fulfillment of all 
obligations to accrediting agencies, the Ministry of Science and Education and the Azerbaijan 
National Academy of Science, and the general public (for details, see chapter 5 below). 
b. The following requirements and procedures thus apply both to the internal usage (data 
gathering, storing and processing) and the external usage of data (disclosure of information to 
accrediting agencies, the Ministry of Science and Education, the Azerbaijan National Academy 
of Science, and the general public). 
c. Data may be disclosed to third parties other than those defined in 4.3.b for well-founded 
academic and/or administrative purposes and/or if the disclosure of data is legally required. Any 
such disclosure must strictly follow the requirements and procedures outlined in this document. 
All third parties that are no state entities must sign a Non-Disclosure Agreement with ADA 
University before any data may be provided to the respective party. 
d. The following requirements and procedures are based on the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan 
On Personal Data, on the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and on 
international best practices. 
e. Data Privacy: Personal data must be protected against unauthorized access, usage, change, or 
destruction. This includes protection against the unwarranted disclosure of information to 
internal and/or external stakeholders and against the re-identification of data subjects from 
aggregate data or from the combination of several datasets by anyone other than those 
University member(s) having access to the respective datasets. It requires the unambiguous

=== PAGE 4 ===
identification of those members of the University that have (partial or full) access to the 
University’ Academic Performance and Quality Assurance Database and/or its physical archive 
as well as the precise classification of data according to data privacy categories. Information 
exempted from the requirement of privacy is data that is made public by individual members of 
the University as part of the academic process (such as information on publications). Further 
details on access to the University’s database and on data classification can be found in chapter 
4.4 below. 
f. Data Pseudonymization: Data privacy requires that personal data used for reporting and 
information purposes be processed in a manner that it cannot be attributed to a specific data 
subject. This includes the de-identification and aggregation of data. 
g. Data Protection: Data privacy requires appropriate technical and physical solutions to safeguard 
(protect) data. Members of the University involved in data management and data reporting (Data 
Operators) may only use software applications that have been approved by the University for 
these purposes. This includes all those members of the University that receive data and reports 
in a digital format (Data Users). The Office of IT and Information Services is responsible to 
provide a current list of software approved by the University. Learning analytics at the University 
is conducted using Blackboard Analytics for Learn. Any other software used for this purpose 
requires the prior approval of the Office of Faculty Affairs and Academic Administration and the 
Office of IT and Information Services. To the extent possible, the latter Office must also prevent 
any breaches of the integrity of the University’s Academic Performance and Quality Assurance 
Database by applying the tools and techniques available at the University. Paper-based data 
must be stored safely by those gathering and processing the respective data. It must be moved 
to designated archives at regular intervals. 
h. Purpose Limitation: The University must ensure that data is gathered, stored and processed 
only for legitimate and clearly specified purposes. These purposes must be explicitly and 
comprehensibly communicated to each data subject whose data is gathered, stored and 
processed by the University or any of its members. It is the shared responsibility of the 
University’s Data Protection Officer and the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation to 
precisely determine, regularly assess and potentially reevaluate the purpose(s) of each dataset 
stored and used by the University (for details on the Data Protection Officer, see chapter 4.4 
below). To fulfill this responsibility, they will cooperate with relevant administrative and/or 
academic units of the University whenever necessary. 
i. Data Minimization: The University must ensure that it limits the collection of personal data to 
what is required to fulfill specific and clearly defined purposes. It must thus ensure that it gathers, 
stores and processes as much data as necessary and as little data as possible. This applies, in 
particular, to data gathered and processed for the purposes of learning analytics, which has the 
potential to significantly extend the limits of information gathered on individual students. It is the 
shared responsibility of the University’s Data Protection Officer and the Office of Quality 
Assurance and Accreditation to regularly assess and potentially reevaluate the significance of 
all data gathered, stored and processed by the University. To fulfill this responsibility, they will 
cooperate with relevant administrative and/or academic units of the University whenever 
necessary. 
j. Data Accuracy: All data stored and processed by the University must be valid and reliable. Data 
accuracy is the responsibility of all administrative and academic members and units of the 
University (also see chapter 4.1 of the University’s Data Management and Reporting 
Regulations). 
k. Positive Intervention: Data is expected to serve the major purpose of improving academic 
processes and the performance of the University’s individual members. This implies that

=== PAGE 5 ===
adverse effects should be minimized or altogether avoided. Such effects may result from (for 
example) generalization or simplification when analyzing and using data. 
l. Equitable and Conscious Data Usage: Positive intervention presupposes that data is used 
consciously by all members of the University and in a manner that prevents any form of 
reduction, generalization, reinforcement of bias and/or closure. This requires that all those 
dealing with personal data are regularly and thoroughly trained in the adequate use of such data 
(as outlined below). 
m. Information and Consent: The University gathers and uses a variety of personal data (for details, 
see the University’s Data Management and Reporting Regulations) to comply with legal 
requirements and to be able to fulfill its institutional purposes (for details, see the University’s 
Statement of Institutional Purposes). In this context, the University must provide comprehensive 
and comprehensible information to those whose data is gathered and used about (1) the kind 
of data that is collected, (2) the purposes that it is used for, (3) the ways in which it will be stored 
and processed, (4) the ways in which it will be protected, (5) the period for which it will be stored, 
(5) the benefits derived from data gathering and usage, (6) the members of the University 
operating the data, and (7) the rights of data subjects in relation to the storage and usage of 
their data. The University must acquire unambiguous consent that clearly indicates the 
respective data subject’s informed agreement to the gathering and processing of his/her 
personal data. This consent must be acquired using the University’s Personal Data Consent 
Form, which must clearly refer to the data that is gathered and used and the purpose(s) for 
which this is done. It must also detail the conditions for the refusal or withdrawal of consent, the 
periods for which data will be stored, and the University’s procedures for data archiving and 
destruction. Informed consent is necessary for all data that the University is not mandatorily 
required to collect and process in order to comply with the legal regulations of the Republic of 
Azerbaijan. It is explicitly required for all data gathered and processed for the purposes of 
learning analytics. It must be renewed if data is to be used for purposes other than those for 
which initial consent was given. If a person refuses to give (or withdraws) his/her consent to 
provide relevant personal data that (1) the University is not legally required to collect, store and 
use, that (2) is lawfully collected, stored and used, and that (3) is necessary for the effective 
operation of the University (and for the fulfillment of its institutional purposes), this person must 
be made aware that this may result in the University not (or no longer) being able to provide 
education, employment and/or other services. 
n. Accessibility and Intervention: At regular (and reasonable) intervals, and to the extent that this 
can reasonably be accomplished, all members of the University have the right to access their 
personal data that is collected and stored by the University and to receive a digital copy of this 
data as well as detailed information on its usage. They may thus verify data and/or request that 
personal data be rectified (in case data should be incorrect) and/or deleted. They may also 
ascertain that their data is used in a lawful manner and request that the use of their data be 
restricted. Deleting data and/or restricting its usage is not permissible in cases where this would 
violate any legal regulation(s) of the Republic of Azerbaijan and/or the University’s obligation to 
document academic processes and/or their outcomes. Neither is it permissible in cases of an 
overriding public interest that requires the disclosure of information on the University. If a person 
requests that data be deleted and/or its lawful usage be restricted which (1) the University is not 
legally required to collect, store and use, which (2) is lawfully collected, stored and used, and 
which (3) is necessary for the effective operation of the University and for the fulfillment of its 
institutional purposes, this person must be made aware that this may result in the University no 
longer being able to provide education, employment and/or other services. 
o. Complaint Resolution: Individual members of the University may address the Data Protection 
Officer if they suspect a violation of the requirements for data usage and protection outlined in

=== PAGE 6 ===
this document in general and/or their right of informational self-determination in particular. The 
Officer will investigate every suspected violation reported and (if verified) initiate a resolution 
process as outlined below in chapter 4.5. All complaints must be treated with strict 
confidentiality. They are to be shared only with those actors mentioned in chapter 4.5 below that 
are involved in the process of complaint resolution. If the latter requires that the name(s) of the 
complainant(s) be disclosed to those accused of a violation of data privacy, usage and protection 
requirements, prior consent of the complainant(s) needs to be obtained. The interests of the 
latter are to be protected at all times, and the Data Protection Officer must ensure that they will 
not experience negative consequences (retaliation) as a result of their complaint. 
p. Data Storage Limitation: The University must ensure that data is stored for no longer than is 
strictly necessary to fulfill the purposes for which the data was gathered and processed. For 
each dataset, and in accordance with international best practices and with the minimum legal 
retention requirements stated in the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan On Personal Data, the 
University’s Data Protection Officer and the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation shall 
define a maximum period for which the respective data may be stored. Data subjects have the 
right to request that their data be erased after the respective maximum period and/or whenever 
data is no longer required to fulfill the purpose(s) for which it was gathered and stored. This right 
particularly applies to data gathered and processed for the purposes of learning analytics, which 
is frequently of temporary significance to support the learning progress of individual students. 
Data exempted from the requirement of erasure is data that is of continuous public interest, that 
is legally required to be archived, and/or that is indispensable for the accountability and/or the 
further development and improvement of the University. Permanently archived personal data 
must (after the respective maximum storage period) be fully de-identified and be stripped of all 
personal information, provided that the purpose(s) for which the data continues to be stored can 
be fulfilled in that manner. In that case, data subjects have the right to request the anonymization 
of their personal data. 
q. Primacy of Privacy: As a general rule, and in addition to the requirements and procedures 
outlined above, all those involved in the process of data collection and usage shall always 
consider the interests of the data subject and, in case of doubt, give preference to these 
interests. 
r. Data Literacy: The University must ensure that all its members (administrators, faculty, students) 
are regularly trained in the appropriate use and protection of data. Students, in particular, are to 
be made aware of their right of informational self-determination. The organization and delivery 
of trainings and information sessions is the shared responsibility of the University’s Data 
Protection Officer, the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation, and the Office of IT and 
Information Services. 
 
4.4 Data Privacy and Data Classification 
a. Data privacy requires that access to the University’s Academic Performance and Quality 
Assurance Database and its physical archive is strictly limited. 
(1) Partial or full access to the database and/or the archive is only granted to those members 
of the University that are involved in the processes of data management and data reporting 
(also see chapter 4.2 of the University’s Data Management and Reporting Regulations). 
(2) University members seeking (partial or full) access to the database and/or archive must 
submit a request to the Data Protection Officer, using the University’s Data Access Form. 
Permission to (partially or fully) access the database and/or archive may only be given if 
required by the respective member of the University to fulfill his/her duties. Such permission 
needs to be confirmed by the Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness and Development 
before becoming effective.

=== PAGE 7 ===
b. Data privacy requires that the University has a Data Protection Officer. 
(1) The Data Protection Officer is responsible to monitor and ensure compliance with the data 
usage and protection requirements outlined in this document. 
(2) The Data Protection Officer represents the interests of data subjects and must investigate 
any suspected violation of these requirements reported to him/her by any member of the 
University. In case of a verified violation, the Data Protection Officer will initiate appropriate 
steps to protect the rights of the affected data subject(s) as outlined below in chapter 4.5. 
(3) The Data Protection Officer is elected by the Quality Assurance Committee and appointed 
by the Rector of ADA University for the duration of an entire quality review cycle (5 
academic years). He/she may be reelected and reappointed once. The Data Protection 
Officer can only be removed from office (by a majority of the Committee’s members) in 
case of a serious neglect of duty. The Committee’s decision requires the approval of the 
Rector. The Data Protection Officer may appeal the decision by submitting a written 
complaint to the University Senate, who will make the final decision. 
(4) The Data Protection Officer annually reports to the Quality Assurance Committee. 
c. Data privacy requires that the University has one or several specifically appointed Data 
Analyst(s). 
(1) Data Analysts are responsible for data reporting. They must ensure that data is processed 
safely at all times. They may only use software applications approved by the University. 
The University must ensure that they are specifically trained in the requirements of data 
privacy and protection. 
(2) Data Analysts are part of the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation. Data reporting 
may partly be delegated to members of other Offices (if required). 
(3) Data Analysts will regularly report to the Director of Quality Assurance and Accreditation 
and promptly submit any suspected violation of the University’s data protection 
requirements to the Data Protection Officer. 
d. Data privacy requires that all Data Operators and Data Users strictly adhere to the requirements 
for data usage and protection outlined in this document. Data Operators are all members of the 
University that collect, edit, organize, store, process and/or analyze personal data. Data Users 
are all members of the University that access personal data gathered and processed by the 
University. All Data Operators and Data Users must submit any complaint and/or suspected 
violation of the requirements for data usage and protection to the Data Protection Officer. 
e. Data privacy requires that the Office of IT and Information Services provides technical support 
and guidance to all members of the University dealing with personal data whenever required. 
The Office is furthermore required to continually monitor the University’s software infrastructure 
and to suggest potential improvements related to the University’s Academic Performance and 
Quality Assurance Database in general or to the requirements and procedures for the usage 
and protection of personal data in particular whenever appropriate. 
f. In order to ensure a high level of data privacy, personal data is classified into 3 categories. 
(1) Data classified as public is personal information that is generally made available to a wider 
audience as part of the academic process and/or that is of a general and overriding public 
interest. This includes information on issues such as research outcomes (faculty), degrees 
acquired (faculty), or rewards received (faculty, staff, students). Such personal data does 
not require the consent of the data subject to be made public by the University. 
(2) Data classified as confidential is personal information that is not generally made available 
to a larger audience and/or the public. This includes information on, for example, student 
performance, faculty evaluations, or graduate employment. Such personal data requires 
the explicit and informed consent of the data subject to be gathered and used. It must be 
processed in such a manner that it can no longer be attributed to a specific data subject.

=== PAGE 8 ===
(3) Data classified as sensitive is confidential personal information that, if made available to a 
larger audience, could have a significant negative impact on the data subject. This includes 
information on the ethnic and/or sociocultural background of the data subject. Such 
personal data must only be accessible to specifically designated members of the University. 
It must be kept separate from all other personal data and may only be used for restricted 
purposes (such as reporting to the Ministry of Science and Education). Personal data must 
be stripped of such information before being made accessible to other members of the 
University as defined above in chapter 4.4.a. 
(4) It is the shared responsibility of the University’s Data Protection Officer and the Office of 
Quality Assurance and Accreditation to determine, regularly assess and potentially 
reevaluate the classification of all data gathered and used by the University (information on 
the latter can be found in the University’s Data Management and Reporting Regulations). 
 
4.5 Breaches of Data Privacy and Unauthorized Data Usage 
a. The University will investigate all instances in which a breach of data privacy and/or an 
unauthorized use of data may have occurred. 
b. Each instance must be reported to the University’s Data Protection Officer. In case of a verified 
breach of data privacy and/or misuse of data, the Officer will notify the data subject(s) affected 
by the occurrence (if applicable). In conjunction with the Office of Quality Assurance and 
Accreditation and the Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness and Development, he/she will 
furthermore undertake all steps required (1) to mitigate negative consequences for the 
respective University member(s), (2) to prevent further breaches and/or misuse of data, and (3) 
to potentially sanction those responsible for the occurrence according to the University’s Honor 
Code and Employee Handbook as well as the legal regulations of the Republic of Azerbaijan. 
Sanctions are determined by the University’s Honor Committee, who will come to a decision 
according to the procedures outlined in the 2 documents previously mentioned. Before 
undertaking any legal steps, the Data Protection Officer and the Honor Committee shall 
determine whether the occurrence can be solved by mediation. 
c. The procedures outlined above also cover breaches of data privacy and/or the unauthorized 
use of data by non-members of the University. 
d. Data breaches that involve gaps in and/or failures of the University’s IT infrastructure must 
additionally be reported to the Office of IT and Information Services. In conjunction with the Data 
Protection Officer, the Office will undertake all steps required to prevent such breaches and 
suggest improvements to the IT security of the information systems and tools used by the 
University. 

5. Transparency and Public Information 
 
5.1 Purposes of the Disclosure of Information 
a. As part of its reporting processes, information is made available to relevant members of the 
University. This contributes to the institution’s self-transparency and allows for the internal 
assessment and enhancement of academic quality and for the further development of the 
institution. 
b. Information is made available to national and international accrediting agencies. The reports 
submitted to these agencies further contribute to the institution’s self-transparency and to the 
continuous improvement of the University’s performance in key academic areas. 
c. In accordance with the legal regulations of the Republic of Azerbaijan, information is made 
available to the Ministry of Science and Education and the Azerbaijan National Academy of

=== PAGE 9 ===
Science. The official reports submitted to the Ministry and the Academy provide a regular 
account of the University’s activities and performance in key academic areas. 
d. Information is made available to the general public, to current and prospective students, and to 
other interested groups. In the context of its institutional purpose of serving the needs of the 
community and society, the University thus ensures transparency by giving a regular account of 
its activities and performance. 
 
5.2 Disclosure of Information 
a. Information made available to internal and external stakeholders must be restricted to what is 
necessary to fulfill the purpose(s) envisaged by the disclosure of that information. 
b. Information to internal and external stakeholders must be made available in accordance with 
the data classification outlined above in chapter 4.4. 
c. Information made available to internal and external stakeholders must be meaningful. It must 
be accessible and comprehensible to the intended target audience. 
d. Information is made available via reports, the University’s website, its Academic Catalogue, and 
further printed and/or digital information material. 
e. Internal reporting is based on the data usage and protection requirements outlined in this 
document. It covers all the areas included in the University’s Academic Quality Assurance 
Standards and Guidelines in general and its Data Management and Reporting Regulations in 
particular. This includes (for example) data on student enrollment and retention, student 
performance and graduation, learning outcome implementation, exchange program 
participation, faculty performance and evaluation, research projects and output, and graduate 
employment. All personal data that is used in internal reports and that is not classified as public 
must be de-identified. Exceptions are only permissible in cases where the overriding purpose of 
quality assessment requires the identification of individual members of the University (as in the 
case of faculty evaluation). In such cases, the explicit and informed consent of the respective 
data subject(s) is required, and those bodies and members of the University involved in the 
process of quality assessment must treat personal data confidentially and in accordance with 
the data usage and protection requirements outlined in this document. Unless stated otherwise 
in the University’s Academic Quality Assurance Standards and Guidelines, reporting is the 
responsibility of the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation. 
f. Information reported to accrediting agencies is based on the legal regulations of the Republic of 
Azerbaijan (national agency) and on the requirements of the respective accrediting organization 
(international agencies). It thus covers all areas and data necessary to comply with the 
standards for accreditation of the respective agency, including (for example) information on 
degree programs and requirements, program effectiveness, student enrollment and retention, 
teaching and learning, student assessment, quality assurance, and the University’s body of 
students, faculty and staff. Data submitted to the national Agency for Quality Assurance in 
Education will be identifiable or de-identified according to the applicable legal regulations of the 
Republic of Azerbaijan. In the case of international agencies, all personal data that is not 
classified as public must be de-identified prior to being submitted to the respective organization. 
The submission of information to national and international accrediting agencies is the 
responsibility of the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation. 
g. Information reported to the Ministry of Science and Education and the Azerbaijan National 
Academy of Science is based on the legal regulations of the Republic of Azerbaijan. It includes 
data on (for example) student enrollment and retention, student performance and graduation, 
the composition of the University’s student body, and on the University’s research projects and 
output. Data will be identifiable or de-identified according to applicable legal requirements.

=== PAGE 10 ===
Reporting to the Ministry and the Academy is the responsibility of the Office of Admissions and 
Student Records and the Office of Faculty Affairs and Academic Administration. 
h. Information for the general public, students, and other interested groups is published on the 
University’s website and selectively supplied as printed and/or digital information material. It 
covers all areas necessary to provide a comprehensive picture of the University’s academic 
performance, namely education, research, students and graduates, as well as faculty and staff. 
This includes data on (for example) student enrollment and retention, student performance and 
graduation, research output, graduate employment, and the composition of the University’s body 
of students, faculty and staff. Unless classified as public, all data must be de-identified prior to 
publication. The publication of all relevant information on the University’s website is the shared 
responsibility of the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation and the Office of IT and 
Information Services. Depending on the respective occasion and target group, printed and/or 
digital information material will also be provided by other administrative and/or academic units 
of the University. 
i. On its website, in its Academic Catalogue, and by means of printed and/or digital information 
material, the University supplies further information intended to provide a broader picture of the 
University as an institution of higher education to the general public, students, and other 
interested groups. Since the information referred to in this case is non-personal in nature, it does 
not fall under the data usage and protection requirements outlined in this document. It includes 
(for example) a detailed overview of degree programs, learning outcomes, student admission 
and enrollment regulations, tuition fees, degree requirements, assessment regulations, and 
student support services. It generally covers all academic quality and quality assurance 
documents and altogether a wide variety of aspects of the University that are of significance to 
an interested audience. It is the shared responsibility of the Office of Quality Assurance and 
Accreditation and the Office of IT and Information Services to ensure that the University’s 
website presents a comprehensive picture of the University. Responsibility for the Academic 
Catalogue rests with the Office of Admissions and Student Records. These Offices will 
cooperate with other academic and/or administrative units of the University whenever 
necessary.