=== PAGE 1 ===
2. POLICY ON THE DEVELOPMENT AND 
MODIFICATION OF ACADEMIC POLICIES 

1. Purpose 
 
Academic policies serve to provide explicit and transparent statements of intent relating to academic 
matters as well as structured guidelines for their implementation (procedures). Since ADA University 
strives to continuously enhance the quality of its academic structures, processes and outcomes, existing 
policies and procedures shall be improved regularly, and new policies and procedures shall be 
developed and implemented. The present policy aims to outline the framework for the development and 
modification of academic policies and procedures. It is part of ADA University’s commitment to academic 
freedom and to the continuous strategic development of the University. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
Academic matters cover all issues related to teaching, learning, assessment and research. These 
include (but are not limited to) degree programs and program objectives, blended and online education, 
student admission and graduation, student services and support, teacher qualification and evaluation, 
research development and support, but also the questions of integrity and equity and all questions 
pertaining to academic quality assurance. 
 
A proposal for a new academic policy or for the modification of an existing academic policy can be 
initiated and submitted by any (academic or administrative) unit of ADA University, by any group of its 
faculty and / or staff, or by members of its senior management. 
 
Modifications of academic policies initiated by the Quality Assurance Committee are regulated by ADA 
University’s general Academic Quality Assurance Policy. 
 
The development and modification of a policy is a multifarious process that involves a variety of factors 
and stakeholders. The proposers are expected to consult widely and to address feedback and concerns 
throughout the entire process. They are also expected to be thoroughly familiar with relevant Quality 
Standards and Quality Guidelines outlined in ADA University’s Academic Quality Assurance Standards 
and Guidelines and with the University’s Document Format Regulations. 

3. Definitions 
 
Academic Policies are statements of intent relating to academic matters. As such, they prescribe a 
course of action to be taken. An academic policy statement thus includes a structured approach to and 
detailed steps for its implementation (Procedures). 
 
Procedures pertaining to academic matters define structured approaches to and detailed steps for the 
implementation of academic policies.

=== PAGE 2 ===
4. Development of New Academic Policies 
 
4.1 Initiation of the Development of a New Academic Policy 
a. A proposal for a new academic policy can be initiated by any (academic or administrative) unit, 
by any group of faculty and / or staff, or by members of the senior management of ADA 
University. 
b. Before beginning the process of policy development, the policy initiators are required to consult 
with the Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness and Development. This role of initial 
consultant will be taken over by at least one permanent member of the University Senate that 
is not involved in the process of policy initiation if the Vice Rector is part of the group of initiators. 
c. The initial consultation will help assess the necessity for the new policy, its potential to enhance 
academic quality at ADA University, but also potential risks policy developers may face and how 
these risks can be addressed. 
d. In case the group of initiators does not include faculty, the initial consultation must also ensure 
that faculty is substantially involved in the process of policy development. Faculty participation 
will usually consist of at least two faculty members belonging to different Schools of ADA 
University. 
 
4.2 Preparation of a Proposal for a New Academic Policy 
a. The group of proposers (which consists of all policy initiators and developers) are responsible 
for the development of the new policy. They will regularly report to the Vice Rector for 
Institutional Effectiveness and Development in order to ensure a smooth process of policy 
development (this step becomes redundant if the Vice Rector is part of the group of proposers). 
b. The proposers will develop a first draft of the academic policy, which must describe the precise 
purpose of the policy, its scope, relevant definitions, potential recommendations and detailed 
steps for its implementation (including the academic and / or administrative unit or units 
responsible for the implementation of the new policy). The policy must correspond to relevant 
Quality Standards and Quality Guidelines outlined in the University’s Academic Quality 
Assurance Standards and Guidelines and also address the issue of diversity. 
c. The proposers will share the first draft of the policy with the Vice Rector for Institutional 
Effectiveness and Development1 and with relevant members and (academic and administrative) 
units of ADA University (such as, but not limited to, Schools and their Deans and faculty, 
Program Directors, Office of Faculty Affairs and Academic Administration, Office of Admissions 
and Student Records, Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation, Information Technology 
Services, ADA Library), all of whom will give initial feedback on the draft (feedback from Schools 
will consist of one comprehensive report from each School). Policy proposers must ensure that 
they share the first draft of the policy (and all subsequent versions) widely and with all 
stakeholders concerned with the proposed policy. Neglect to do so may result in the rejection of 
the proposal in later stages of the process. 
d. The proposers will address the feedback received in an adequate manner and develop a revised 
version of the policy proposal. The proposers are free to adopt or reject feedback. In case of 
rejection, they must demonstrate good reasons for their decision. 
e. The revised version will go through the same processes as mentioned in 4.2.c and 4.2.d, which 
will result in a final version of the proposal. 
f. The final version of the proposal will be submitted to the Office of Quality Assurance and 
Accreditation, which will ensure that it fully corresponds to relevant Quality Standards and 
 
1 Sharing with the Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness and Development becomes redundant if (s)he is part of the group of 
proposers. This also applies to the following parts of this policy.

=== PAGE 3 ===
Quality Guidelines set forth in ADA University’s Academic Quality Assurance Standards and 
Guidelines as well as to the formal requirements outlined in its Document Format Regulations. 
Potential adjustments will be implemented in close cooperation with the policy’s proposers. 
g. After confirmation by the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation, the proposers will share 
the final version of the proposal with all the stakeholders referred to in 4.2.c, all of whom will 
supply feedback letters on the proposal (feedback from Schools will consist of one 
comprehensive letter from each School). The feedback letter provided by the Vice Rector for 
Institutional Effectiveness and Development must include a recommendation to the University 
Senate. This recommendation will be supplied by the initial consultant(s) if the Vice Rector is 
part of the group of proposers. 
 
4.3 Requirements for a New Academic Policy 
a. The proposers must demonstrate the necessity for the new policy and its potential to enhance 
academic quality at ADA University. 
b. Submitted policy proposals must correspond to ADA University’s relevant Quality Standards and 
Quality Guidelines and adhere to the rules outlined in ADA University’s Document Format 
Regulations. 
c. The proposal must indicate how the new policy addresses the University’s Equity, Diversity and 
Non-Discrimination Policy. 
d. If applicable, proposals must be accompanied by a statement on resources required for the 
implementation of the policy. 
e. All the feedback letters received from members and stakeholders of ADA University must be 
added to the policy proposal. In case of rejected feedback, the proposers must attach a 
statement which details reasons for each rejection made. The proposal must also enclose the 
recommendation mentioned in 4.2.g. 
 
4.4 Proposal Submission and Approval of a New Academic Policy 
a. The proposers will submit the final version of the policy proposal (together with all the 
accompanying documents mentioned in 4.3) to the Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness 
and Development. 
b. The Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness and Development will submit the proposal 
(together will all the accompanying documents mentioned in 4.3) to the Deans’ Council. 
c. At one of its next regular meetings, the Deans’ Council will discuss and take a vote on the policy 
proposal. Policy proposers will be invited in order to present the proposal and address potential 
questions. Approval by the Deans’ Council is granted if the proposal is accepted by the majority 
of its members. 
d. If approved by the Deans’ Council, the policy proposal (together with all the accompanying 
documents mentioned in 4.3) will be placed on the University Senate’s agenda, who will discuss 
and take a vote on the proposal at one of its next regular meetings. Policy proposers will be 
invited in order to present the proposal and address potential questions. Approval by the Senate 
is granted if the proposal is accepted by a majority as defined in Article 3 of the Senate’s By-
Laws. 
e. If accepted by the Senate and approved by the Rector, the new policy becomes effective in the 
academic year following the Senate’s approval. It will be published on ADA University’s website, 
be added to the appropriate handbook (such as the Academic Quality Assurance Standards 
and Guidelines or the Academic Catalogue) and be included in the regular review cycle at ADA 
University. The Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness and Development will provide an 
electronic copy of the new policy to all members of ADA University.

=== PAGE 4 ===
4.5 Implementation of a New Academic Policy 
a. Responsibility for the implementation of the new academic policy rests with the academic and / 
or administrative unit(s) specified in the policy. 
b. In order to ensure full and timely implementation of the new policy, the academic and / or 
administrative unit(s) responsible for its implementation will report to the Vice Rector for 
Institutional Effectiveness and Development after each semester of the academic year in which 
the policy came into effect. 
c. In case of incomplete or delayed policy implementation, the Vice Rector will take appropriate 
steps in order to ensure full and timely implementation of the policy. 

5. Modification of Academic Policies 
 
5.1 Initiation, Preparation and Submission of a Proposal for Policy Modification 
a. A proposal for the modification of an academic policy can be initiated by any (academic or 
administrative) unit, by any group of faculty and / or staff, or by members of the senior 
management of ADA University. 
b. Before beginning the process of policy modification, the initiators are required to consult with 
the Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness and Development about the proposal for policy 
modification (this step becomes redundant if the Vice Rector is part of the group of initiators). 
c. If applicable, the initial consultation will help determine the advantages and disadvantages of 
the proposed changes to the academic policy, but also potential risks that may be faced in the 
process of policy modification and how these risked can be addressed. 
d. In case the group of initiators does not include faculty, the initial consultation must also ensure 
that faculty is substantially involved in the process of policy development. 
e. The group of proposers (which consists of all policy initiators and developers) are responsible 
for the development and submission of the policy modification. 
f. The proposers will develop a detailed description of all proposed modifications. All modifications 
must correspond to relevant Quality Standards and Quality Guidelines set forth in ADA 
University’s Academic Quality Assurance Standards and Guidelines and (if applicable) be 
aligned with related policies, statements or regulations of the University. 
g. The proposer(s) must consult with the Office of Quality Assurance and Accreditation in order to 
ensure that their proposal fully corresponds to the Quality Standards and Quality Guidelines 
mentioned in 5.1.f and to the formal requirements outlined in ADA University’s Document Format 
Regulations 
h. The proposers will share the draft of their proposal with the Vice Rector for Institutional 
Effectiveness and Development and with all stakeholders of ADA University that are concerned 
with the respective policy, all of whom will supply feedback letters on the draft (feedback from 
Schools will consist of one comprehensive report from each School). 
i. After thorough consideration of all feedback received, and after having finalized the proposal, 
the proposers will submit it to the Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness and Development 
(together with a description of the rationale behind the proposal and all feedback letters 
received). 
 
5.2 Approval and Implementation of Policy Modification 
a. The Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness and Development will submit the proposal to the 
Deans’ Council (together with the description of the rationale behind the proposal and all 
feedback letters received). At one of its next regular meetings, the Deans’ Council will discuss

=== PAGE 5 ===
and take a vote on the proposal. Approval by the Deans’ Council is granted if the proposal is 
accepted by the majority of its members. 
b. If approved by the Deans’ Council, the policy proposal (together with the description of the 
rationale behind the proposal and all feedback letters received) will be placed on the University 
Senate’s agenda, who will discuss and take a vote on the proposal at one of its next regular 
meetings. Approval by the Senate is granted if the proposal is accepted by a majority as defined 
in Article 3 of the Senate’s By-Laws. 
c. If accepted by the Senate and approved by the Rector, the modification becomes effective in 
the academic year following the Senate’s approval. It will be updated on the University’s website 
and in the respective handbook(s). An electronic copy of the revised policy will be provided to 
all members of ADA University by the Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness and 
Development. 
d. Responsibility for the implementation of policy modifications rests with the academic and / or 
administrative unit(s) specified in the policy. 

6. Suspension of Academic Policies 
 
6.1 Proposal of and Decision on the Suspension of an Academic Policy 
a. The suspension of an existing academic policy can be proposed by any (academic or 
administrative) unit, by any group of faculty and / or staff, or by members of the senior 
management of ADA University. Proposers are expected to consult widely before submitting a 
proposal for policy suspension. 
b. The proposers must provide a detailed statement on the rationale behind the proposal and 
attach any document that may support their proposition. Their proposal must also include 
feedback letters from the Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness and Development and 
further relevant stakeholders mentioned in 4.2.c. Faculty will supply one comprehensive 
feedback letter for each School. Feedback letters are only required from those stakeholders that 
are not part of the group of proposers. 
c. After appropriate consideration of the feedback letters received, the group of proposers will 
decide whether they will uphold, modify or withdraw the proposal. 
d. Modification of the proposal will result in an updated statement on the rationale of the proposal 
and/or in the compilation of additional supporting documents, all of which must be submitted to 
the stakeholders mentioned in 6.1.b, who will either uphold or adapt their previous feedback 
letters. After appropriate consideration of the feedback letters received, the group of proposers 
will make a final decision on whether they will uphold or withdraw the proposal. 
e. If the proposal is upheld, it will be submitted to the Deans’ Council (together with the latest 
description of the rationale behind the proposal, all the supporting documents compiled, and the 
latest versions of the feedback letters received). At one of its next regular meetings, the Deans’ 
Council will discuss and take a vote on the proposal of policy suspension. Proposers will be 
invited in order to present the proposal and address potential questions. Approval by the Deans’ 
Council is granted if the proposal is accepted by the majority of its members. 
f. If approved by the Deans’ Council, the proposal of policy suspension (together with the 
documents mentioned in 6.1.e) will be submitted to the Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness 
and Development, who will make a recommendation to the University Senate (this 
recommendation must come from a permanent member of the University Senate that is not 
involved in the process of policy suspension if the Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness and 
Development is part of the group of proposers). The proposal will be placed on the Senate’s 
agenda, who will discuss and take a vote on the proposal at one of its next regular meetings.

=== PAGE 6 ===
Proposers will be invited in order to present the proposal and address potential questions. 
Approval by the University Senate is granted if the proposal is accepted by a majority as defined 
in Article 3 of the Senate’s By-Laws. If accepted by the Senate and approved by the Rector, the 
suspension of the policy will come into effect and be implemented as described in 6.2. 
 
6.2 Implementation of the Suspension of an Academic Policy 
a. Unless otherwise decided by the University Senate, the suspension of the academic policy 
becomes effective in the academic year following the Senate’s decision. 
b. The Vice Rector for Institutional Effectiveness and Development will inform all members of ADA 
University of the upcoming termination of the academic policy. 
c. Upon its termination, the policy will be removed from the respective handbook(s) and from the 
list of active policies on the University’s website. It will be archived on the website and 
permanently removed 5 years after its termination.