

===== PAGE 1 =====
Page | 1 
 
ADA University No. 2900 Rev.: 10 
Policy and Procedures Effective date: September 9, 2024 
 
Subject: Registration 
 
Initial Course Registration 
Students are responsible for identifying implications for their satisfactory academic progress and 
enrolment status at the University, including impact on financial aid, which results from any 
change in registration. Students may consult with Academic Advisors to better understand issues 
of registration and its impact. 
Students are also responsible for verifying that all changes in registration are reflected in their 
official student record. 
Students must be registered to participate in a class. Before registration, students should plan their 
program with their academic advisor. 
Add-Drop Period 
The add/drop period is the first 10 days of the semester or the equivalent for summer terms. During 
the add/drop period, students may add or drop courses or change course sections, except when 
academic unit or teaching unit explicitly prohibits it, without penalty or notice on their transcript. 
Drop or Withdraw from a Course 
Dropping a course results in no record of the course on the student’s academic transcript. 
Withdrawing from a course results in a W recorded on the student’s academic transcript. In both 
cases, the cumulative GPA is not affected. 
Drop a Course 
Students may drop courses except for the last course, on the student portal before the tenth day of 
classes. 
If a student wants to drop all courses before the end of add/drop period and does not enroll in any 
other courses, the student must contact advisor for a leave or separation from the University. 
 
Discontinuation of attendance at a class or notification to the instructor is not sufficient to 
constitute an official drop from all courses. Occupied University housing must be vacated promptly 
by students who drop all classes.


===== PAGE 2 =====
Page | 2 
 
ADA University Registration 
Policy and Procedures 

Withdraw from a Course 
After the end of add/drop period or the equivalent for the summer term, students may withdraw 
from a course up until the end of the tenth week of the semester or the equivalent for summer term 
by filling out Withdraw from a Course form and submitting it to the Office of Admissions and 
Student Records. Some additional restrictions on course withdrawals may apply to specific 
academic programs and international students. Additional restrictions may also apply to courses 
used to satisfy the University minimum requirements. 
When students withdraw before the end of the tenth week of the semester or equivalent for other 
terms, a grade of “W” is entered for that course. Discontinuation of attendance at a class or 
notification to the instructor is not sufficient to constitute an official Withdrawal. The withdrawal 
policy may not apply if a student has been charged with a violation of the Honor Code or Student 
Code of Conduct. 
A student may not withdraw from a course after the tenth week of class. 
Students may withdraw from no more than four courses during their tenure at the University and 
no more than one course per semester. Undergraduate students on probation may withdraw from 
two courses per semester.
