

===== PAGE 1 =====
1 | P a g e 
3.4.3 RESEARCH REWARD PROGRAM 
AND REGULATIONS 

1. Purpose 
 
ADA University aims to encourage its faculty to pursue research excellence and to contribute to the 
further enhancement of the University’s international reputation as a center of excellence in research. 
As part of this objective, ADA University offers a reward program for publications that correspond to high 
international standards. The purpose of this document is to outline the specific rules of this reward 
program. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This regulation covers academic books and articles that comply with specific publication standards and 
that were published by full-time faculty members of ADA University. 
 
Faculty members of ADA University are strongly recommended to consult the reward program’s 
eligibility requirements before publishing the results of their research. 

3. Definitions 
 
The Research Reward Program is a reward mechanism established by ADA University. It is intended to 
create incentives for faculty to actively and continuously engage in research activities and to reward 
them for publications that fulfill high international standards. 
 
The Impact Factor (IF) of a journal is the average number of times articles from that journal have been 
cited in a particular year. This calculation takes into account articles that were published in the two years 
preceding the year for which the Impact Factor is computed. The Impact Factor is used as an indication 
of the relative importance of an academic journal within its field. 
 
The Median Impact Factor (MIF) is the middle (median) value of all journal Impact Factors within a 
certain field (discipline). 

4. Research Reward Program 
 
4.1 Program Timeframe and Eligibility Requirements 
a. Beginning with the Fall semester of 2020, the reward program is effective for the period of one 
academic year. After having been reviewed and potentially amended, it will be renewed each 
academic year. 
b. Only full-time faculty of ADA University may apply for the rewards provided by the program. 
c. Monetary remuneration may only be granted for research output that was not sponsored by the 
University’s Faculty Research and Development Fund. 
d. For each publication, authors are expected to clearly state ADA University as their affiliation. 
e. Publications may only be rewarded if they fulfill one of the following criteria:


===== PAGE 2 =====
2 | P a g e 
(1) Research article published in a journal indexed in SSCI (Social Sciences Citation Index), 
SCI (Science Citation Index), or SCIE (Science Citation Index Expanded). 
(2) Book published with one of the publishing houses listed in category A or B below (see 
chapter 5). 
 
4.2 Publication Rewards for Single Authors 
a. Books falling into category A will be rewarded with 2,500 AZN each. Books falling into category 
B will be rewarded with 1,500 AZN each. 
b. Each article that is published in an indexed journal as defined above in 4.1.e will be rewarded 
based on the following formula: Reward = (IF/MIF)1.5 x 1,000 AZN. A reward calculator that 
automatically determines the reward resulting from this formula can be obtained from the Office 
of Faculty Affairs and Academic Administration. 
c. The maximum reward for one journal publication is 5,000 AZN. 
d. The formula defined in 4.2.b is based on the following principles: 
(1) Each reward is dependent on the impact factor of the journal in which an article is published. 
The higher the impact factor of a journal, the higher the reward. 
(2) Journal impact factors are to be considered in the context of disciplines. A journal’s impact 
factor is thus put in relationship to (and adjusted based on) the median impact factor of that 
journal’s discipline. The larger the difference between the journal’s impact factor and the 
discipline’s median impact factor (with IF≥MIF), the higher the reward. 
(3) The exponent (1.5) is part of the reward mechanism and must not negatively affect the 
reward. In cases where the adjusted impact factor (IF/MIF) is lower than 1, the exponent is 
thus removed from the formula. 
 
4.3 Rewards for Co-Authored Journal Publications 
a. The rewards stipulated in chapter 4.2 are adjusted for co-authored journal articles. The reason 
for these adjustments is to adequately address and reward the contribution of each author to 
the respective publication. 
b. If 2 or more authors from ADA University publish jointly, the reward initially resulting from the 
formula defined in 4.2.b is increased by 50%. The resulting adjusted reward is divided equally 
between all the authors of a publication. In the case of 2 authors, each author accordingly 
receives an amount that is equivalent to 75% of the initially calculated reward; in the case of 3 
authors, the reward for each author will be 50% of the initially calculated reward. This formula 
will be applied for any number of authors. 
c. If 1 author from ADA University publishes together with more than 1 non-member of the 
University, the reward initially resulting from the formula defined in 4.2.b will be decreased by 
10% for each additional author. In the case of 2 authors that are non-members of ADA 
University, the deduction is accordingly 10%; in the case of 3 such authors, the deduction will 
be 20%. This formula will be applied for any number of authors that are non-members of the 
University. 
d. A reward calculator that automatically determines the rewards resulting from the regulations 
defined in 4.3.b and 4.3.c can be obtained from the Office of Faculty Affairs and Academic 
Administration.


===== PAGE 3 =====
3 | P a g e 
5. Ranking of Academic Publishing Houses 
 
5.1 The following categories of academic publishers are based on the rankings developed by the 
SENSE Research School, which have been adapted to reflect the research conducted at ADA 
University. 
5.2 Category A comprises the following top international publishing houses: 
 
Cambridge University Press 
Oxford University Press 

Columbia University Press 
Princeton University Press 

Harvard University Press 
Stanford University Press 

Johns Hopkins University Press 
University of Chicago Press 

MIT Press Cambridge (MA) 
Yale University Press 
 
5.3 Category B comprises the following good international publishers: 
 
Academic Press (imprint of Elsevier) 
Martinus Nijhoff Publishers 

Allen & Unwin 
Methuen 

American Chemical Society (ACS) 
Nomos 

Aspen Publishing 
Palgrave Macmillan 

Australian National University Press 
Pergamon Press 

Avebury / Ashgate 
Permanent Black / Orient Blackswan 

Basic Books 
Pluto Press 

Blackwell 
Polity Press 

Bloomsbury Academic 
Praeger 

Brill Publishers 
Psychology Press (part of Taylor & Francis) 

Bruylant 
Random House 

Cameron May 
Routledge 

Clarendon Press 
Rowman & Littlefield 

Cornell University Press 
Royal Society of Chemistry 

CRC Press (part of Taylor & Francis) 
SAGE Publishing 

Curzon Press 
SETAC Press


===== PAGE 4 =====
4 | P a g e 
Duke University Press 
Springer 

Earthscan 
Springer VS 

Edward Elgar Publishing 
St. Martin’s Press 

Elsevier Science 
State University of New York Press 

Frank Cass Publishers 
Sweet & Maxwell (part of Thomson Reuters) 

HarperCollins 
Taylor & Francis 

Hart Publishing 
T&T Clark 

Heinemann 
University of California Press 

IWA Publishing 
University of Michigan Press 

James Currey 
University of Pennsylvania Press 

Karthala 
University of Texas Press 

Kluwer Academic Publishers 
Verso 

Kluwer Law International 
Westview Press 

Lynne Rienner Publishers 
Wiley 

Macmillan
