

===== PAGE 1 =====
1 | P a g e
 
 ADA University 
No. 3010 
 Rev.: 10 
 Policy and Procedures 
Effective date: August 28, 2020 
 Subject: Separation or Suspension from the University 
Voluntary Separation 
Students in good academic standing wishing to separate from the University the following semester 
must notify the Office of Admissions and Student Records and may do so at any time up to and 
inclusive of the last day of classes, provided their academic progress during the semester does not 
result in academic dismissal. 
A student who is considering separating from the University should consult with the academic unit as 
soon as possible to determine whether there are other more viable alternatives. 
 
A separation can be initiated by the student or a representative of the University. 
Separations requested after the last day of instruction or by students on academic probation will only 
be approved by the academic unit if the student’s academic progress does not result in academic 
dismissal. 
A separation from the University results in the loss of active student status. 
Students who are eligible to enroll in courses for a semester, but who do not enroll, will be 
separated from the University. 
Following a separation, students in good academic standing and students with no academic standing 
can 
apply 
to 
the 
University 
admissions 
office 
for 
re- 
admission in the following year and regain active student status. Students who separate from the 
University after the end of course withdrawal period may only resume their studies after completing 
one 
semester 
away 
from 
University. 
Students 
who 
separate 
from 
the 
University without notifying the Office of Admissions and Student Records will not be considered 
for re-admission. Students who separate from the University and are subsequently readmitted, will 
not be readmitted again after they separate from the University second time for any reason. 
Involuntary Non-Academic Suspension 
The University may suspend a student from the University for an interim period pending 
disciplinary or criminal proceedings or medical evaluation regarding behavior relevant to such 
proceedings. 
The interim suspension will be effective immediately without prior notice whenever there is 
evidence that the continued presence of the student at the University poses a substantial and 
immediate threat to him or herself, to others, or to the stability and continuance of normal 
University functions. Interim suspension excludes students from University premises and other 
privileges or activities.
