=== PAGE 1 ===
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 
No. 2910 
Rev.: 9 
Effective date: August 30, 2019

=== PAGE 2 ===
Subject: Special Course Types 
 
Courses Taken for Audit 
 
Students do not receive credit for audited courses. Students can take maximum 2 audit courses per 
semester. Auditing a course during the Summer term is not allowed. 
 
Faculty may establish standards of class participation and/or attendance for auditing students. When 
a student fails to meet those standards for auditing a course, the instructor will assign the grade of 
ZO (administrative withdrawal from audit). 
 
Capstone Experience 
 
One capstone experience is required both from undergraduate and graduate students as part of their 
major. The capstone must be a practicum in nature. The Dean of the academic unit will determine 
the nature and scope of the capstone experience and specific requirements will be included in the 
Program of Study. The structure, content and grading of the capstone examination, as well as any 
policy on retaking the examination, will be determined by the academic unit. 
 
Master’s Thesis 
 
Graduate students may select a Research Track by the end of their first year of study. Such 
students will write a master’s thesis. Students who are writing a thesis are expected to demonstrate 
their capacity to do original, independent research. A master’s thesis equates to 18 semester credit 
hours. 
 
A thesis advisory committee shall consist of at least two members of the ADA University faculty. 
In consultation with the Thesis Chair, the student must solicit faculty for the committee and must 
submit their names for approval by the Associate Dean or designee. 
 
A thesis must be submitted to the University Library in electronic format after final approval by the 
Examining Committee. The submission of the thesis to the University in fulfillment of degree 
requirements grants the University the one-time, non-exclusive right to publish the document on the 
ADA University public domain. Distribution is subject to a release date stipulated by the student 
and approved by the University. As the owners of the copyright of the thesis, students have the 
exclusive right to reproduce, distribute, make derivative works based on, and publicly perform and 
display their work, and to authorize others to exercise some or all those rights.

=== PAGE 3 ===
Special Course Types
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 

 Internships and Career Development Skills for Undergraduate and Graduate Students 
 
Qualified, undergraduate degree-seeking students in all full-time programs must enroll in credit-bearing 
Internships with Career development course built in them, which are part of the student’s studies at ADA 
University. 
 
Undergraduate students enroll in Career Development Skills and Strategies course during their third year of 
study. To enroll in Internships, undergraduate students must have completed 120 earned credits, while 
graduate students must have completed at least 36 credits at the University. Credit hours assigned for 
undergraduate Career Development Strategies and Skills course is set at 6 ECTS. Internship is a required 
part of the course to be taken in either Spring or Summer terms of the same Academic year. Students failing 
Career Development Strategies and Skills component are subject to the retake of the course before 
progressing into the credit-bearing Internship. Students failing Internship component of the course should 
retake only required internship part by completing minimum requirement of 120 hours of work. 
 
General requirement for undergraduate degree students for the credit-bearing internship is - minimum of 120 
hours over minimum 4-6 weeks are required for each internship. 
 
Graduate degree-seeking students in all full-time programs of the School of Public and International Affairs, 
and the School of Education have credit-bearing Internship offered to them as a Technical elective within 
their programs of study at ADA University. 
 
Graduate Credit-bearing internship course as a Technical elective is set at 6 ECTS. General requirement for 
the credit-bearing internship is - minimum of 180 hours over minimum 5-6 weeks including in-class 
Internship seminar hours. 
 
All students, with the permission of their instructors, may vary their scheduled hours if they meet the total 
minimum requirement by the end of the term. Students who elect to work more than the minimum may do 
so, without any impact on the credit hours. Internships can be paid or unpaid consisting of work assignments 
with a significant experiential component under the guidance of an ADA University instructor. Instructor 
and teaching unit approvals are required for internships. An important component of any internship is the 
availability of an internship placement opportunity that will provide sufficient substantive work to merit 
academic credit. To receive academic credit, the work for the internship must be more substantive than 
administrative, with non-administrative work comprising in general at least sixty percent (60%) of the work 
performed. The course instructor must provide the student an academic syllabus with clear learning 
outcomes for the course and internship, communicate regularly with the student, and require assignments 
designed to provide a foundation and support for the internship. The assigned faculty mentor is responsible 
for the assessment of the student’s internship performance, which must include an assessment by the 
workplace supervisor. The workplace supervisor’s assessment can count for no more than half the final 
grade. The academic component of the course must be valued as at least half of the final grade. 
 
Internships and undergraduate Career Development Skills and Strategies (CDSS) course are graded as 
Pass/Fail. Detailed Guidelines and Forms for the Credit-bearing internship will be provided within the 
CDSS course by the School Career Advisor to all undergraduate students.

=== PAGE 4 ===
Special Course Types
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 

Graduate students taking internship as a Technical elective should be provided with detailed program 
and syllabus of the course within in-class seminars by the course Instructor. 
 
Substituting Courses 
 
In cases where repeating a failed course or taking a course from Program of Study is not possible 
due to discontinuation of a course, a student may petition to substitute one course for another, as 
long as the course content is significantly similar. The substitute course must be at the same level 
as the original course. Lower level courses may not be used to substitute for upper level courses. 
 
The student’s academic advisor and the Dean of the student’s program must approve of the 
substitution by signing the Course Substitute form. If approved, the grade in the new course taken 
will be included in the GPA calculation. In case of a repeat of a discontinued course the grade of 
the first course taken will remain on the transcript with an asterisk and will be excluded from the 
GPA and earned credit calculation. The grade for the substitute course will be included in the GPA 
and earned credit calculation. 
 
In cases when a course is discontinued, and substitution is not possible, the course requirement can 
be waived upon the approval of Academic advisor and the Dean. A course waiver does not 
decrease the overall credit requirements for graduation.