=== PAGE 1 ===
3. STATEMENT OF ACADEMIC PRINCIPLES 

1- Purpose 
 
Education and research at ADA University are based on a set of firm academic principles. The purpose 
of this document is to define these principles. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
The principles delineated in this document apply to all educational, research and administrative activities 
conducted at ADA University. 
 
All members of ADA University are expected to adhere to the principles delineated in this document. 
 
The principles stated in this document should be considered alongside the principles delineated in ADA 
University’s Statement on Teaching and Learning and in its Statement on Research as well as alongside 
the directives outlined in the University’s Student Assessment Regulations and its Online Education and 
Assessment Regulations. 

3. Definitions 
 
Academic Principles are fundamental concepts that serve to guide all activities related to education and 
research. 
 
Academic Excellence is a fundamental guiding principle according to which education and research 
comply with (or even exceed) high quality standards. 
 
Academic Integrity is a fundamental guiding principle according to which every educational and research 
activity is to be conducted in an honest, responsible and altogether ethical manner. Most importantly, 
this principle precludes any kind of cheating and plagiarism as well as the awarding of grades and 
degrees based on anything else but the performance of students and their attainment of course learning 
outcomes and program requirements. 
 
Academic Freedom is the right of faculty and students to teach, study and engage in research without 
undue restrictions. It describes the right of free expression and inquiry that is the prerogative of students 
as well as of faculty within their respective disciplines. 
 
Equity describes a fundamental guiding principle according to which individuals are to be treated in a 
manner that is fair and appropriate to their specific circumstances. This implies that no one is 
(intentionally or unintentionally) discriminated against by being excluded from certain opportunities due 
to these circumstances. Equity, as opposed to equality, thus acknowledges differences between 
individuals and aims at inclusiveness by facilitating access to these opportunities and providing 
additional support for those that are disadvantaged so that they can develop their full potential.

=== PAGE 2 ===
4. Academic Principles 
 
4.1 Academic Excellence: Teaching and research at ADA University are conducted according to high 
international standards. They are innovative and contribute to the advancement of knowledge and 
to the individual development of all those involved in the processes of teaching, learning and 
research. 
4.2 Academic Integrity: All educational and research activities at ADA University are conducted in an 
honest, responsible and altogether ethical manner. The University promotes and rigorously protects 
the principle of academic integrity. It fosters an attitude of integrity in all of its members, and it 
sanctions all violations of this fundamental academic principle. 
4.3 Academic Freedom: All faculty members and students of ADA University are free in their research 
and pursuit of knowledge. Within the framework of the University’s educational program and of the 
requirements pertaining to this program and to its delivery, faculty are free in their teaching and in 
the development of the University’s curricula. 
4.4 Equity: At ADA University, all individuals are treated in a fair and non-discriminatory manner, and 
this regardless of their gender, age, health, race, nationality, ethnicity or cultural affiliation, religion, 
sexual orientation, social origin, or economic circumstances. ADA University furthermore creates 
opportunities and offers support for individuals that are disadvantaged due to disabilities and/or due 
to their social background. 
4.5 Individual Development: ADA University is committed to the personal, academic and professional 
development of all its members. It offers an environment in which students, faculty, and staff 
members can excel and perform to their highest potential. 
4.6 Openness: As a center of excellence, ADA University is dedicated to the future prosperity of 
Azerbaijan. It is open to innovation and to new developments in education. The University adapts 
key elements of two of the most successful education systems (namely of the U.S. American 
system and of the European Higher Education Area) to ensure compliance with high international 
standards and to facilitate international collaborations.