=== PAGE 1 ===
1.4.4 STATEMENT OF STUDENT 
OUTCOME IMAGES 

1. Purpose 
 
Students of ADA University are educated through a rigorous curriculum that is based on the thorough 
study of their major, elective courses and Functional Enablers, as well as on a comprehensive program 
of General Education. They are provided with experiential and practical learning opportunities, which 
form an integral part of their education. The overriding objective of this academic program is to train 
high-impact graduates who will embody essential outcome images. The purpose of this statement is to 
specify these images. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This statement defines fundamental concepts that serve to guide the entire educational process at ADA 
University. More specifically, it provides a framework for the development and implementation of 
essential competencies and learning outcomes. 
 
This statement should be read alongside ADA University’s Statement of Core Competencies and 
Learning Outcomes, which defines the competencies that serve to further specify the outcome images. 

3. Definitions 
 
Outcome Images are role concepts that serve to guide the entire educational process. They are defined 
by essential professional and civic competencies that a student should possess upon graduation. 
 
High-Impact Graduates are graduates who possess all the essential competencies required to become 
highly efficient professionals and responsible citizens. 

4. Student Outcome Images 
 
After having developed key professional and civic competencies, the graduates of ADA University will 
embody the following 4 outcome images: 
 
1. Highly Intellectual Solution Providers 
2. Close Collaborators 
3. Effective Communicators 
4. Ethical Citizens 
 
By facilitating the achievement of these outcome images in its students, ADA University aspires to 
educate high-impact graduates, rather than passive citizens and employees. High-impact graduates are 
citizens who feel responsible for their country and who contribute to its well-being and prosperity. What 
is more, they are professionals who are able and willing to apply their knowledge and skills creatively 
and in a responsible manner in order to solve problems and develop new and creative ideas. The

=== PAGE 2 ===
academic programs at ADA University are designed to allow for a student-centered and project-based 
teaching and learning process that fosters the professional and civic competencies required for a student 
to become a high-impact graduate. 

5. Obligations 
 
The objective of training high-impact graduates obliges ADA University: 
1. to admit the most qualified and promising students who have the potential to excel in rigorous 
academic curricula. 
2. to develop these students into the country’s key workforce that possesses essential qualities such 
as analytical thinking, creative problem solving or responsible decision making. 
3. to present these students to all sectors of the job market (industry, government and administration, 
educational and research institutions) where they can apply their competencies effectively.