=== PAGE 1 ===
2.4.1 STATEMENT ON TEACHING 
AND LEARNING 

1. Purpose 
 
ADA University aims to offer an innovative and challenging learning environment that is based on 
excellence in teaching and research and that allows for purposeful and transformative learning 
experiences. The purpose of this statement is to define the fundamental principles of teaching and 
learning at ADA University. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This statement provides the framework for teaching and learning at both the undergraduate and 
graduate level. It applies to all the degree programs and courses offered face-to-face or via a blended 
or online learning format. 
 
All faculty of ADA University are expected to be thoroughly familiar with the principles set forth in this 
document. 

3. Definitions 
 
Principles of Teaching and Learning are fundamental concepts that serve to guide the educational 
process. 

4. Principles of Teaching and Learning 
 
4.1 Centrality: Teaching and learning are at the core of ADA University’s mission, vision and purposes. 
4.2 Academic Freedom: Within the context of the University’s educational program and of the 
requirements pertaining to this program and its delivery, faculty are free in their teaching and in 
their choice of course content and of teaching and learning methods. 
4.3 Academic Excellence: Teaching is conducted according to high international standards. 
4.4 Innovation: Teaching is based on innovative methods that maximize student learning. It uses 
technology innovatively in order to enrich and improve learning in online, blended and face-to-face 
education. 
4.5 Nexus: Education and research are closely connected. Research informs the teaching and learning 
process. 
4.6 Outcome Orientation: Teaching and learning are purposeful activities and based on clearly stated 
and measurable learning outcomes. 
4.7 Alignment: All key factors of the educational process are interlinked and aligned, namely, clearly 
articulated learning outcomes, instructional approaches, and assessment methods. The alignment 
of learning outcomes with instructional approaches requires that all teaching and learning activities 
support students in the achievement of these outcomes. Their alignment with assessment methods 
requires that the chosen methods allow students to fully demonstrate the achievement of intended 
learning outcomes.

=== PAGE 2 ===
4.8 Attainability: The teaching and learning process allows students to achieve intended learning 
outcomes and core competencies. 
4.9 Adequacy: The level of teaching and learning activities is appropriate to the level of courses and 
students. 
4.10 Variety: The instructional process employs a variety of teaching and learning methods. It thus 
engages students in various forms of activities intended to achieve different learning outcomes. 
4.11 Relevance: The educational process includes experiential and practical learning opportunities that 
allow students to apply acquired competencies in real-life contexts. 
4.12 Participation: The teaching and learning process provides students with stimulating learning 
experiences and with opportunities to participate actively and to their full potential. 
4.13 Learner Orientation: Students are at the center of the teaching and learning process. Teachers 
promote a learner-oriented focus by employing inquiry-based methods and various forms of 
independent study, project-based learning, collaborative learning, and experiential learning. 
4.14 Inclusiveness: The educational process is inclusive and sensitive to the needs of students. It 
employs a variety of teaching and learning methods so that all students can participate equitably 
and to their full potential. 
4.15 Information: Students are provided with all relevant information prior to the beginning of a course 
or unit of study. 
4.16 Feedback: Students are regularly provided with information on their performance and learning 
progress and potentially with advice on how they may improve. 
4.17 Improvement: Teachers continuously solicit feedback from students and other stakeholders and 
use this feedback as well as student assessment results to improve the teaching and learning 
process. 
4.18 Collaboration: All actors directly involved and collaboratively engaged in the educational process 
(students, faculty, staff members) pursue quality in teaching and learning and thus work towards 
the implementation of ADA University’s mission and core values and of the principles outlined in 
this document.