=== PAGE 1 ===
3.4.1 STATEMENT ON RESEARCH 

1. Purpose 
 
ADA University aims to provide an environment that promotes excellence in research and that allows its 
faculty members to excel and perform to their highest potential. The purpose of this statement is to 
define the fundamental principles that guide all research activities at ADA University. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This statement provides the framework for all the research activities performed and all the research 
projects carried out at ADA University. 
 
All members of ADA University that are engaged in research are expected to be thoroughly familiar with 
the principles set forth in this document. 

3. Definitions 
 
Principles of Research are fundamental concepts that serve to guide the scholarly pursuit and 
dissemination of knowledge. 

4. Principles of Research 
 
4.1 Centrality: Research forms an integral component of ADA University’s vision, its purposes, and its 
principle of academic excellence. 
4.2 Academic Freedom: The University’s principles of research serve as framework for academic 
excellence and must not restrict the right of free expression and inquiry. Within their respective 
disciplines, all faculty members are thus free in their research and in their choice of research topics 
and methods. 
4.3 Academic Integrity: Research is conducted based on high ethical standards. Plagiarism and other 
forms of academic dishonesty are sanctioned based on the University’s Honor Code. Conflicts of 
interest are made transparent, and they are addressed in accordance with relevant legal regulations 
and ethical standards. 
4.4 Academic Excellence: Research is conducted according to high international standards. 
4.5 Significance: Research projects address subjects that are of disciplinary and/or interdisciplinary 
relevance. 
4.6 Appropriateness: Research projects are designed in a way that is appropriate to the respective 
subject. 
4.7 Currency: Research projects take into consideration relevant theories and approaches as well as 
the latest developments in the field (or fields) of research. 
4.8 Thoroughness: Research projects are based on a well-structured and comprehensive research 
plan. Both the research plan and the outcomes of a project are subject to (internal and/or external) 
peer review.

=== PAGE 2 ===
4.9 Innovation: Research outcomes are substantial and serve to advance knowledge within one or 
more academic disciplines. 
4.10 Impact: Research results are published in high impact journals (articles) or with recognized 
academic publishers (books). 
4.11 Collaboration: The University’s faculty regularly carry out collaborative research projects with 
members from other institutions of higher education and/or from international and national research 
institutes. These projects correspond to the standard and requirements for research set forth in 
ADA University’s Academic Quality Assurance Standards and Guidelines. 
4.12 Nexus: Research and education are closely connected. Whenever possible, research results are 
used to enrich and enhance teaching and learning at the University. 
4.13 Individual Development: Faculty members regularly engage in research activities. They thus 
continually develop their academic qualifications and capabilities. 
4.14 Accountability: Faculty members are accountable for the resources they receive to support their 
research activities. 
4.15 Support: The University fosters research by providing support to its faculty. It offers research 
trainings; resources, funding opportunities and a reward program; advice on legal and ethical 
matters; and guidance on publication and the dissemination of knowledge. Faculty members whose 
rights and obligations include research are allocated time to pursue research activities. 
4.16 Assessment and Enhancement: The University regularly evaluates the research projects and 
outcomes of its faculty members. It continuously works to strengthen research excellence at the 
University.