=== PAGE 1 ===
2. STATEMENT OF INSTITUTIONAL PURPOSES 

1. Purpose 
 
ADA University is an institution with a clear and ambitious mission. This mission (together with its charter 
and vision) provides the foundation for its purposes as an institution. The objective of this document is 
to define these purposes. 

2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
The institutional purposes outlined in this document apply to all academic and administrative activities 
at ADA University. They provide guiding principles to all its Schools and administrative units and to all 
the members of the University. 
 
All members of ADA University are expected to work towards the implementation of the institutional 
purposes delineated in this document. 
 
This statement should be read in conjunction with the document ADA Mission and Academic Quality. 

3. Definitions 
 
Institutional Purposes are fundamental objectives and obligations that are to be promoted and fulfilled 
by the University. They derive from the University’s charter, mission and vision. Institutional purposes 
further specify the University’s mission and vision, and they serve to guide all activities at the University. 
 
Academic Excellence is a fundamental guiding principle according to which education and research 
comply with (or even exceed) high quality standards. 

4. Institutional Purposes 
 
4.1 Academic Excellence: ADA University promotes excellence in education and research. It serves as 
a center and driving force of academic excellence and innovation in Azerbaijan, the larger region, 
and beyond. It provides an environment in which students, teachers, scholars and staff members 
can fully develop their intellectual and personal qualities and perform to their highest potential. 
4.2 Community and Society: ADA University serves the needs of the community and society. It offers 
an educational program that adequately addresses these needs; it fosters scientific development 
and innovation; it trains highly qualified graduates that can be employed in various sectors of the 
labor market; it cultivates responsible citizens that actively contribute to the good and prosperity of 
the community and society; and it offers consulting and support to the economy and the public 
sector. 
4.3 Students: ADA University admits and educates students from the following groups: (1) Azerbaijani 
citizens with a prior record of outstanding academic performance and with the potential to perform 
highly during their studies; (2) foreign citizens with a prior record of outstanding academic 
performance and with the potential to perform highly during their studies; (3) Azerbaijani citizens

=== PAGE 2 ===
who are socially and financially disadvantaged; (4) Azerbaijani citizens from internally displaced 
families and refugee families; (5) Azerbaijani citizens from families of martyrs and disabled war 
veterans, and Azerbaijani citizens who serve or served in the armed forces; (6) Azerbaijani citizens 
with a diagnosed disability. 
4.4 Educational Program: ADA University offers degree programs at the undergraduate and graduate 
level that are current and relevant and that are designed and delivered according to high 
international standards. 
4.5 Research: ADA University conducts research according to high academic and ethical standards 
and thus contributes to the advancement of scientific knowledge. 
4.6 Graduates: ADA University equips its students with all the essential competencies they need to be 
competitive on the national and international labor markets and to become successful and highly 
efficient professionals. 
4.7 Citizens: ADA University strengthens the sense of patriotism, citizenship and social responsibility 
in its students and employees. 
4.8 Life-long Learning: ADA University provides opportunities for the continuous professional 
development of its employees. It also offers a program of continuing education for professionals. 
4.9 Values: ADA University protects, promotes and enhances moral, cultural and academic values.