=== PAGE 1 ===
ADA University No. 1400 Rev.: 8 
Policy and Procedures Effective date: July 1, 2018 

Subject: STRATEGIC PLAN 2025 
 
I. 
Mission ............................................................................................................................. 2 
II. 
Vision ............................................................................................................................ 2 
III. 
Core Values ................................................................................................................... 2 
IV. 
Statement of Common Purpose .................................................................................... 2 
V. 
Strategic Objective 1: Learning .................................................................................... 3 
VI. 
Strategic Objective 2: Students ..................................................................................... 5 
VII. 
Strategic Objective 3: Faculty and Research ............................................................. 7 
VIII. 
Strategic Objective 4: Staff........................................................................................ 9 
IX. 
Strategic Objective 5: Internationalization of ADA University ................................. 10 
X. 
Strategic Objective 6: Branding .................................................................................. 12 
XI. 
Strategic Objective 7: ADA Science and Innovation Park ......................................... 14 
XII. 
Strategic Objective 8: Governance and Leadership ................................................ 16 
XIII. 
Strategic Objective 9: Resource Mobilization ......................................................... 18

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

I. 
Mission 
 
Our mission is to cultivate highly intellectual solution providers who are closely collaborating, 
effectively communicating members of global community with ethics and sense of citizenship. 
II. 
Vision 
 
We continually strive to be a world-class university in Azerbaijan with an excellence of “müəllim and 
alim” in an innovative learning culture. 
 
III. 
Core Values 
 
• 
Academic excellence 
 
• 
Accountability 
 
• 
Honor and transparency 
 
• 
Diversity, collaboration and communication 
 
• 
Social responsibility 
 
IV. 
Statement of Common Purpose 
 
ADA University is a vision of future brought to life. Ours is a community of academic excellence, 
accountability, honor, transparency, diversity, collaboration, communication and social responsibility 
that empowers individuals to challenge conventional thinking in pursuit of new ideas. 
 
Rallying around the ADA Flag, we uphold its symbols. Blue in ADA Flag stands for loyalty and 
communication. Our loyalty to our core values has been rock solid. We communicate well our story 
and transmit our values among ourselves through years. White means purity of honor and 
transparency. We pledge to honor and live by honor. White also stands for the purity of mind, clean of 
prejudices, in search of knowledge and enlightenment. Red symbolizes vibrancy, change and 
innovation. ADA is a thriving location. In this volcano of ideas and initiatives, we encourage minds to 
explode. We challenge static thoughts. We conquer the heights through continuous learning and 
restless innovation of selves.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

V. 
Strategic Objective 1: Learning 
 
Innovate learning environment by enhancing applied knowledge and engaging process that 
would lead the transformation of our students through relevant skills and program offerings 
 
1.1 Enrich our students’ academic experiences and empower them to develop the right skills to 
enable them to succeed in the workplace 
 
1.1.1: Develop cognitive skills through learning by doing: Ensure a significant portion of the 
curriculum is based on practicum by using emerging tools such as flipped classrooms, 
mandatory graded teamwork projects, hybrid education, digital simulations, start-up demos, 
case method etc. so that our students learn how to apply their knowledge to solve real world 
problems. 
 
1.1.2: Enhance behavioral and mindset skills that are critical to both personal and professional 
success: Reshape the learning ecosystem with right interventions to develop personal 
responsibility, self-awareness, navigation of ambiguity, persistence, adaptability, grit, 
flexibility, growth mindset, ethics and honor. 
 
1.1.3: Develop strong leadership and global citizenship skills: Build a culture by organizing a 
student-driven ADA tradition that promotes service to community and ability to mobilize 
others, which also encourages faculty mentoring and staff participation. 
 
1.1.4: Cultivate a strong command of English as a means of education in ADA and equip 
students with strong writing skills. 
 
1.1.5: Enhance communication skills of students by integrating public speaking, presentation 
and debate capabilities into our curriculum. 
 
1.1.6: Cultivate strong intercultural competence of students to enhance development of respect 
and appreciation of other cultures and people by them. 
 
1.1.7: Enhance the use of technology in classrooms and across the curriculum, increase means 
of mobility and ensure maximum utilization of learning management systems. 
 
1.1.8: Select core values that would distinguish ADA’s teaching culture and decide on the 
relevant actions that best reflect these values into real teaching environment. 

1.2 Innovate program portfolio of ADA by leveraging the opportunities in online world, in high 
demand areas, and in global offerings 
 
1.2.1: Initiate a hybrid education model as a combination of online, modular and conventional 
classroom course offerings in line with emerging global education trends and build a cross-
school committee to continuously evaluate the feasibility, adoption and growth of this model 
for innovation to improve the quality and options in learning harnessing digital technologies.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

1.2.2: Explore opportunities of building new undergraduate and graduate programs in niche 
strategic areas, which can be jointly offered by different schools of ADA University, as well 
as with recognized partner universities across the world. 
 
1.2.3: Grow Executive Education while also developing niche areas under its roof such as 
online certificate programs, corporate trainings, sales and development of convention 
business, build benchmarks of profitability for it, and increase its share of revenues within the 
University. 
 
1.2.4: Develop our summer school structure, design and introduce various programs, while 
also maximizing utilization of campus in summer. 
 
1.2.5: Offer distance learning, certificate, summer and other programs in Washington DC at 
ADA University Foundation headquarters in partnership with major universities in the area. 

1.3 Build on our strengths of library and information services 
 
1.3.1: Clearly define our collection development strategy and specify the balance of growth 
between physical volumes and digital resources, while also increasing the digital resource 
assets and e-library holdings. 
 
1.3.2: Make sure the library has the relevant resources, including journal subscriptions to 
support the research and teaching effort of faculty in their fields of interest. 
 
1.3.3: Increase the collaboration between library and schools to increase students’ awareness 
of services offered by library, maximize their use of such services and better equip students on 
their research and learning. 
 
1.3.4: Enhance information literacy of our students by leveraging library in teaching. 
 
1.3.5: Collaborate with the Career Management Center to support our students in industry 
research, employer profiles and help to make informed career choices. 
 
1.3.6: Organize library and information days to discuss how the library can better support the 
university community as a whole.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

VI. 
Strategic Objective 2: Students 
 
Develop our students with global leadership potential by providing them with an international 
perspective in a diverse environment and with a sound support system 

2.1 Attract, admit and enroll a sound talent base with a potential for growth 
 
2.1.1: Establish clear enrollment goals, then, determine, achieve and maintain optimum 
enrollment through 2025. 
 
2.1.2: Define the desired student profile and administer admission criteria and process in line 
with this student profile. 
 
2.1.3: Build an Intensive High School outreach program: - Institutionalize a summer bridge 
program for top high school students across the country in the STEM and support them with 
introduction to programing area with some English language modules to optimize the 
preparedness, retention and success of our students when they enroll at ADA University. 

2.2 Cultivate desired student attributes and ensure student success 
 
2.2.1: Grow our students into high-achieving and highly intellectual individuals, cultivate their 
leadership quality, transform them into creative thinkers and solution providers, ensure 
diversity of students, and enable them to work in teams and to communicate effectively. 
 
2.2.2: Promote student academic success as a result of higher retention and graduation rates as 
well as implementation of academic advising. 

2.3 Ensure an environment of inclusiveness and true diversity 
 
2.3.1: Carry out a pro-active Enrollment Management Plan led by Deans to ensure that the 
diversity is guaranteed through multiple dimensions; such as nationality, capital city vs. 
regions, gender, race, age, disabilities etc. 
 
2.3.2 Organize International Office under one roof that would be responsible for incoming and 
outgoing exchange activities and international student services. 
 
2.3.3: Mandate International Office to design a comprehensive orientation program for 
international student “onboarding” and continuous mentoring program for their better 
integration in ADA University, culture and society. 
 
2.3.4 Focus on attracting incoming exchange students from high quality universities to ensure 
diversity and meet international student target rates. 
 
2.3.5 Provide support infrastructure for physically challenged students and students with 
learning challenges.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

2.4 Create a full support system for our students to engage them in a vibrant campus 
community and to increase their employability 
 
2.4.1: Design and implement a counseling program to address special needs of our students. 
 
2.4.2: Empower Student Government and improve its involvement in planning and 
administering student initiatives and services. 
 
2.4.3: Improve student clubs, initiatives and social activities to increase student engagement 
and help build a vibrant campus. 
 
2.4.4: Support sports clubs and maintain optimum level of athletic activities throughout the 
campus. 
 
2.4.5: Invest in and build a strong Career Management Center, strengthen its integration into 
overall ADA education, develop benchmarks for internship and employment opportunities 
both inside and outside the country, increase such opportunities of our students through career 
fairs, industry panels, individual interviews and ADA University Foundation USA. 
 
2.4.6: Strengthen the office of Bursar and Financial aid to better address the impact of rising 
cost of education by developing ways of supporting our students accordingly.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

VII. Strategic Objective 3: Faculty and Research 
 
Attract, develop and retain the best faculty who truly shares the ADA vision and excels in 
innovative teaching, also support their research effort selectively in prioritized areas 
 
3.1 Create ADA University Future Faculty by attracting the best and brightest from across the 
country as a potential pool of Azerbaijani faculty to construct a sound base for and ensure the 
continuity of our future growth 
 
3.1.1: Create and fund an Office of Future Faculty Development led by Vice Rector of 
Academic Affairs. 
 
3.1.2: Institutionalize a sustainable PhD development program including multiple approaches, 
such as joint PhD programs and targeted programs attainable fully at partner University, by 
signing long-term partnership agreements with multiple reputable universities abroad to 
develop a pool of potential Azerbaijanis with terminal degrees as future faculty for respective 
schools. 
 
3.1.3: Track and engage Azerbaijani academics abroad in the activities of the University and at 
various schools. 
 
3.1.4: Assess readiness to develop our own post-graduate programs for selected areas in the 
long term. 

3.2 Optimize faculty recruitment effort to find the talent that would both allow capability 
building within the university and increase the reputation of university worldwide 
 
3.2.1: Mandate each Dean to develop faculty projections for at least upcoming 3 years while 
also ensuring a balanced and optimal mix of faculty in close coordination with the Vice Rector 
of Academic Affairs. 
 
3.2.2: Mandate Vice Rector of Academic Affairs and Deans to create a database of potential 
visiting professors for a period of two years in advance, which could be used as a guiding base 
for faculty recruitment. 
 
3.2.3 Explore the opportunities of bringing more senior and reputable international faculty 
with short, medium and long term positions to facilitate development and delivery of programs 
and curriculum on focus areas, as well as collaborate on building teaching and research 
capabilities of our local faculty. 
 
3.2.4: Expand the geographic reach of recruitment and identify multiple “hotspots”, such as 
Eastern Europe, Southeast Asia and Turkey etc. to ensure the success of recruitment efforts 
and attract diverse faculty of quality. 
 
3.2.5: Design and improve the Orientation Program and support services for the newly 
recruited faculties, including additional modules for International Faculty for their better 
integration in ADA University, culture and society. 
 
3.2.6: Include HR in faculty recruitment and assign a specific HR specialist as faculty 
Recruitment officer to support Deans on recruitment administration and interface with the 
University’s HR.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

3.3 Improve career paths and professional development opportunities of faculty 
 
3.3.1: Define clear and differentiated career tracks up to 3 - core, core-line and practitioners - 
enabling faculty to choose their time allocation on teaching and research, while ensuring a 
standardized time for service across all faculty. 
 
3.3.2: Build mentorship program among the faculty to support junior faculty to work directly 
with senior faculty to harness mentoring and network sharing opportunities and assign Deans 
to follow-up the effectiveness of the system. 
 
3.3.3: Establish a “Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence” to fully implement the 
initiatives outlined in section 1.1 
 
3.3.4: Institutionalize the employment opportunity model for graduate students to support 
faculty on their teaching and research activities (e.g., research assistants, statistical analysts, 
teaching assistants, etc.), which in return will enhance students’ learning experience. 
 
3.3.5: Seek and implement multiple venues and means of continuously communicating with 
faculty to better address their needs and enhance their commitment to ADA vision, mission 
and values. 

3.4 Set a standardized and sound faculty performance management system with the right 
evaluation and consequence management mechanism 
 
3.4.1: Establish a “Quality Assurance and Assessment Office” led by Vice Rector of 
Academic Affairs and Deans that would ensure consistency of high-quality education during 
the growth of ADA University, coordinate internal and external QA requirements and 
reporting. 
 
3.4.2: Enhance the performance management system to ensure multiple data points are 
integrated in faculty evaluation (e.g., student evaluations, peer faculty observations, dean 
evaluations, research effort and their own statements) and ensure the implementation on a 
periodic and standardized basis. 

3.5 Create research areas of strategic importance while supporting faculty in their individual 
research efforts and improve overall research performance 
 
3.5.1: Determine research areas of strategic importance, including interdisciplinary research 
and incentivize research efforts focused on these areas by establishing a competitive awarding 
system. 
 
3.5.2: Encourage faculty to seek and ensure external funding for their individual research 
projects, support faculty in these efforts through OSRG and ensure all potential research 
contracts are reviewed, approved, signed and administered by OSRG through completion. 
 
3.5.3: Improve research performance of core faculty and build accountability and 
encouragement mechanisms to lead to tangible research output.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

VIII. Strategic Objective 4: Staff 
 
Employ and develop highly competent staff team that operate most effectively with a sense of 
belonging, norms of ethics and belief in a culture of excellence 

4.1 Improve recruitment effort to select people with highest potential and ethics 
 
4.1.1: Improve and decentralize the hiring process of staff, establish a hiring committee and 
add only relevant people to it. 
 
4.1.2: Mandate Human Resources Department to pre-define the norm staffing positions of 
each department and salary ranges of each position in the organization. 
 
4.1.3: Develop a set of clearly defined job descriptions and qualifications, and adhere to them 
while hiring. 

4.2 Embrace a strategic perspective in human resources management 
 
4.2.1: Mandate Human Resources Department to design rotation programs within related 
departments for high performer staff with the aim of creating more well-rounded human 
capital. 
 
4.2.2: Mandate Human Resources Department to design and implement annual training plan 
for each staff at the beginning of each year and communicate this plan clearly to each 
department. 
 
4.2.3: Mandate Human Resources Department to revisit the current performance evaluation 
system of staff and detect the improvement areas to be addressed. 
 
4.2.4: Encourage all staff to mentor our students every year, while identifying and 
implementing social responsibility and leadership projects enforcing core ADA values among 
campus community. 
 
4.2.5: Increase overall resources dedicated to HR Unit and attract outside expert support, so 
that their qualifications and competence in human resources management can be ensured and 
enhanced. 
 
4.2.6: Build Career Management and Professional Development roles in HR that will be 
jointly responsible for professional development, career path management and succession 
planning of the key roles in organization. 
 
4.2.7: Develop staff retention strategies and incentives.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

IX. 
Strategic Objective 5: Internationalization of ADA University 
 
Build a global presence by increasing diversity of faculty, students and staff, ensuring their 
alignment and mobility, and developing a strong presence outside Azerbaijan 
 
5.1: Create alignment on the importance of internationalization among campus community, and 
buy-in their ownership of our internationalization strategy to help position ADA University as a 
global intellectual hub attracting students, faculty and staff from around the world 
 
5.1.1: Organize frequent and regular campus-wide dialogues with different focus groups 
including faculty, students and staff on internationalization agenda. 
 
5.1.2: Develop strategies and action plans 
faculty, staff and students, thereafter, to 
Azerbaijani peers. 
 
to better orient and induct international 
continuously integrate them with their 
 
5.1.3: Create remuneration and benefits package of faculty and staff, independent of their 
national or international origin, to ensure we have a merit-based community. 
 
5.1.4 Host international conferences and forums at the University, encourage faculty to present 
their research at international conferences and support our students to participate in 
international peer University student competitions in a diversity of disciplines. 

5.2: Build a critical mass of international students 
 
5.2.1: Identify the priority list of countries and schools where strategic partnerships can be 
built. 
 
5.2.2: Develop enrollment plan and build differentiated school strategies to bring a critical 
mass of international students to at least 15 percent of student body by 2025. 
 
5.2.3: Work with the Government of Azerbaijan to ensure sustainable funding and 
management of the International Human Capacity Enhancement Program jointly managed by 
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and ADA University. 

5.3. Look beyond national borders when recruiting faculty and leadership 
 
5.3.1: Develop balanced mix to ensure at least 30 percent of faculty body is international 
across all programs and schools. 
 
5.3.2: Recruit and retain top university administrators from across the globe and ensure there 
is a right mix of national and international administrators.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

5.4. Build mobility of faculty and students 
 
5.4.1: Mandate international faculty to work with International Office to develop a 
collaboration mechanism/partnership with their home universities with respect to student and 
faculty exchange. 
 
5.4.2 Set an overall incoming/outgoing exchange student ratio target to International Office by 
analyzing the potential in each school. 
 
5.4.3 Build a collaboration mechanism between Career Management Office and Deans to 
determine the list of potential global employers of our students in each program. 
 
5.4.4 Mandate Career Management Office to partner with these global employers to acquire 
internship opportunities for our students. 

5.5 Set up and develop a global presence outside Azerbaijan 
 
5.5.1: Launch and develop redesigned ADA University Foundation, headquartered in 
Washington, DC, USA with a comprehensive scope of activities, while also developing 
opportunities for faculty and students of ADA University in North America. 
 
5.5.2: Endow Caspian Basin Studies Program at ADA University Foundation in Washington 
DC and establish its direct collaboration with internationally recognized schools. 
 
5.5.3: Encourage joint global research to be conducted by ADA University faculty and their 
peers abroad. 
 
5.5.4: Design mobile executive education programs whereas certain modules can be offered 
in Azerbaijan and certain modules abroad, also in partnership with internationally recognized 
schools.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

X. 
Strategic Objective 6: Branding 
 
Build a differentiated, consistent, sustainable and high impact branding strategy that will help 
us to achieve our vision by acquiring a strong global positioning, by attracting best talent, by 
achieving success in fundraising and by enhancing ADA reputation among opinion leaders and 
key constituencies 

6.1 Define the building blocks and management structure of ADA University’s brand strategy 
 
6.1.1: Build a brand management team that has the end to end responsibility for all the 
initiatives defined in Strategic Objective 6. 
 
6.1.2: Initiate a “branding research and analysis” effort (surveys, focus groups and 
interviews) with internal (top management, students, faculty and staff) and external 
stakeholders (prospective students and faculty, government and private institutions, 
international partners) to generate a sound input base for branding strategy formulation 
process. 
 
6.1.3: Extract guidelines and messages from key university strategy elements (mission, vision, 
values and strategic objectives) that will constitute the overarching body of the ADA’s 
branding strategy and ensure its consistency with overall strategy. 
 
6.1.4: Define ADA University’s brand architecture - a) DNA: what makes brand unique 
 
b) History: what the brand stood for at its beginning c) Values: what brand currently stands 
for d) Codes: what embodies the brand and makes it iconic. 
 
6.1.5: Define ADA University brand’s future – a) Vision of the market: how market and 
 
student body will evolve in the future, b) Brand aspirations: brand’s target position in 
 
2025, c) Brand objectives: expectations the brand wants to fulfill. 
 
6.1.6: Build brand territories – which geographies the brand covers and target group 
analysis – which student segments are targeted, their demographics and specific needs. 
 
6.1.7: Build ADA University brand’s value proposition – what unique space the brand wants 
to capture in students’ and faculties’ mind and influence. 

6.2: Construct ADA University’s brand communication guidelines and decide on delivery 
methods that are effective to reach right people and attract the desired talent 
 
6.2.1: Design ADA’s fundamental branding guidelines - graphical guidelines (logo, 
lettering, materials used etc.) and editorial guidelines (codification of key drivers, type of 
words and tone, level of language, applications illustration etc.) that will guide through any 
internal and external effort.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

6.2.2: Develop a comprehensive and consistent external brand communication strategy 
(e.g. advertising, sponsoring, visual identity, press relations etc.) that is conveyed in right 
channels to the targeted audience. 
 
6.2.3: Develop an internal brand communication guideline that will communicate the 
branding strategy elements and messages to our faculty and staff in order to ensure overall 
consistency and engagement. 
 
6.2.4: Build a high ROI, targeted and tailored event agenda for the university (e.g campus 
visits, admission events, receptions etc.) that engages the students, faculty and public in the 
most effective way. 
 
6.2.5: Build a unique “value package” effort for international students and use this package 
in all outreach activities targeted to this segment (e.g this package should include – 
internships, networking events, region specific skill and knowledge seminars and employment 
opportunities). 

6.3 Support our brand strategy delivery with a dynamic online presence in order to effectively 
reach out to student, faculty and opinion leaders and to better communicate competitive 
advantages of our brand and identity to the right group at the right timing 
 
6.3.1: Redesign our website and website management process to create a more responsive, 
intuitive, easy-to-navigate and updated platform that would represent ADA University brand 
to the best extent possible. 
 
6.3.2: Leverage search engine optimization tools to receive a prominent spot for the 
university and programs in search engine results. 
 
6.3.3: Rely on data-driven web analytics and big data to determine who our audience is, how 
we should reach them and which platform is the most effective to communicate into. 
 
6.3.4: Reform our social media team and strategy to realize the best ROI on administrating an 
effective strategic social media management. 
 
6.3.5: Invest in having a presence in mobile technologies to reach untapped opportunities in 
rise of mobile technology and connected devices. 
 
6.3.6: Include CRM culture and methods into our outreach to prospective students. 

6.4: Build a brand tracking and monitoring system to ensure that branding effort is effective 
over time 
 
6.4.1: Define brand KPIs both for annual targets of the university (e.g program fill rates, 
executive education enrollment, international student ratio etc.) and daily brand performance 
metrics (e.g press coverage, event feedbacks etc.) to measure and track the effectiveness of the 
branding effort. 
 
6.4.2: Develop a continuous branding research culture that will gather comparable feedback 
over time for ADA University’s brand image and update the brand strategy accordingly with 
the related outcomes.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

XI. 
Strategic Objective 7: ADA Science and Innovation Park 
 
Help build a wealth of university, while also promoting innovation and entrepreneurship, 
transfer of knowledge and technology through maximum utilization of high-impact talent 

7.1 Help lift up natural sciences and build up a good intellectual base in the country 
 
7.1.1: Construct a college that enhances students’ command of the Azerbaijani and English 
languages, builds a strong national identity and sense of belonging, and cultivates the right 
environment to lift up the science, technology, engineering and mathematics in the country. 
 
7.1.2: Attract and retain a strong cadre of teachers specializing in areas of national heritage 
such as history, language and literature, and competencies in STEM. 
 
7.1.3: Spearhead national recruitment efforts and conduct activities to identify and attract 
potential students from all parts of Azerbaijan to enroll in the ADA University College. 

7.2 Build technology labs to provide faculty and students with an opportunity to conduct their 
research and commercialize their innovative ideas while collaborating with small enterprises 
and major technology companies 
 
7.2.1: Build partnerships with major technology companies (e.g. SAP, Cisco, Microsoft) to 
provide IT trainings to company employees and interested candidates in the first phase. 
 
7.2.2: Attract and employ researchers and developers to Technology Labs from local, 
international universities while also leveraging Azeri Network in the US, Europe and Asia. 
 
7.2.3: Construct Technology labs and different technology labs (i.e. Cybersecurity Lab, 
Technology Competence Center, and Data Science Lab) with public and private investments. 

7.3 Build an A-lab to act as an incubator for the start-ups and grow their innovative ideas from 
inception to implementation and equip our talent with a foundational knowledge about 
innovation, technology and business entrepreneurship 
 
7.3.1: Pre-incubate 3-4 successful start-ups by providing seed funding from ADA University 
Foundation with a phased approach. 
 
7.3.2: Launch an A-Lab, as a center for innovation and entrepreneurship, also serving public 
and community outside ADA University and employ a small team for A-lab to organize 
programs and events to be held within A-lab.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

7.4 Support successful start-ups by establishing a legal entity under ADA University Foundation 
and attract venture capitals and angel investors to create a strong and continuous start-up 
ecosystem for growth 
 
7.4.1 Establish Venture Capital/Seed Fund legally under ADA Foundation and agree on 
performance criteria, ticket size per company, fund size for ADA University Foundation’s 
new VC Fund. 
 
7.4.2 Make agreements with local and regional VC Funds to provide funding to the start-ups 
and SMEs in ADA Science and Innovation Park and build a certified “ADA Angel Investor 
Network” to extend the investor pool for the start-ups. 

7.5 Provide high quality real estate facilities and shared business services to become one of the 
most preferred locations by local and multinational companies 
 
7.5.1: Build office space and business center for ADA Science and Innovation Park and make 
sure the high quality and relevant shared business services (accounting, legal support, HR, 
security, infrastructure etc.) are in place. 
 
7.5.2: Recruit relevant staff for the operating company of ADA Science and Innovation Park 
and start marketing and PR campaigns to attract tenants to the Park. 

7.6 Ensure the right network of companies are constructed in Science and Innovation Park to 
lead the development and growth of the park by increasing the prestige of the Park as well as by 
creating R&D investments, creating seed capital for the park and driving business-academia 
collaboration 
 
7.6.1: Advertise the establishment of ADA Science and Innovation Park by reaching out to 
international agencies (i.e. news agencies, international funds, NGOs, technology agencies 
etc.). 
 
7.6.2: Bring local and multinational anchor companies in selected sectors (i.e. 
 
technology, telecommunications, banking etc.) to ADA Science and Innovation Park. 
 
7.6.3: Attract existing hi-tech SMEs in Azerbaijan to ADA Science and Innovation Park by 
announcing the tax incentives and grants provided by local and international authorities.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

XII. Strategic Objective 8: Governance and Leadership 
 
Establish a favorable governance model that sustains culture of excellence, continuously 
strengthens quality of leadership and delegates the authority to empower people 
 
8.1 Define clear policies, optimize key university-level processes and establish proper assessment 
mechanisms 
 
8.1.1: Produce a set of policies and procedures forming the framework of university and 
school level governance. 
 
8.1.2: Decide on key university-level processes to optimize, draw target charts for selected 
processes (e.g. who is responsible, accountable, consulted and informed in each step) and have 
them approved by University Senate (e.g. recruitment of faculty, admission procedures, 
offering a new program, budget formulation etc). 
 
8.1.3: Design, launch and manage “Institutional Planning and Assessment Office”. 

8.2 Set the right roles, responsibilities and accountability for key people in the organization 
 
8.2.1: Create the transparent organizational chart with right span or layers and control that 
would lead the optimum structure with regards to management efficiency and effectiveness. 
 
8.2.2 Explore the opportunity to build a PMO Office under Strategy and Development 
department to either hold the responsibility of or track the status of initiatives/KPIs of the 
strategy program. 
 
8.2.3: Review the roles and responsibilities of each role up to layer 2 in the organizational 
chart and formulate clear role definitions and KPIs for these positions. 
 
8.2.4: Assign roles in layer 1-2 (i.e. Vice Rectors and Deans) to define tailored KPIs and 
targets for each Department Head/Dean reporting to them and ensure that these KPIs and 
targets are aligned between parties. 
 
8.2.5: Assign Vice Rectors to define the key functions of each department to ensure 
effectiveness and a single point of accountability for a given task. 

8.3 Increase the strength, quality and effectiveness of leadership 
 
8.3.1: Revitalize and strengthen composition and operating model of Board of Trustees that 
would increase their strategic input into university’s management and growth by also bringing 
in individuals of high net worth and international repute. 
 
8.3.2: Clearly define Boards on both university and school levels, criteria of their membership 
and composition as well as interaction mechanism among these boards.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

8.3.3: Set periodic meeting structure, working principles, agenda items for the University 
Senate, enforce consistency of its meetings, and increase its input into university governance. 
 
8.3.4: Design and launch “Leadership and Management Development Initiative” to strengthen 
global leadership and effective communication capacity throughout the university via 
customized programs. 
 
8.3.5: Develop strong cadre of potential local university managers and strengthen management 
of departments and units across the university with professional development programs and 
coaching mechanism. 

8.4 Optimize school structure and school level governance model 
 
8.4.1: Phased growth from centralized to autonomous governance: Define the degree of 
academic and managerial autonomy of schools in a staged approach, empower them in 
planning and management of such degree of autonomy, and define mechanisms of their 
accountability. 
 
8.4.2: Framework for programmatic expansion: a) Define feasibility and potential of 
existing degree and non-degree programs based on a market research and analysis b) also 
clearly define potential new ones to be launched within the next 5 years-based on such market 
research and analysis outputs. 
 
8.4.3: Better integration of schools and programs: Explore opportunities of degree and non-
degree programs jointly offered by different schools to enforce interdisciplinary teaching and 
research, as well as integration among different schools of the university. 
 
8.4.4: School strategy review: Build school level strategies and set a strategic review 
committee for each year consisting of Top Management, Vice Rector of Academic Affairs and 
Deans to ensure their adherence to strategic goals of both university and school. 

8.5 Link the vision and mission of the university with national objectives 
 
8.5.1: Ensure that the university has a substantial degree of autonomy in academic, 
governance and financial areas. 
 
8.5.2: Ensure our programmatic expansion is in line with strategic agenda of the country so 
that we better address the need of human resources for the priority sectors.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

XIII. Strategic Objective 9: Resource Mobilization 
 
Diversify ADA’s sources of funding to be financially more sustainable and autonomous, also 
continue building a world-class campus which ensures a good quality lifestyle and provides 
advanced services and technology 
 
9.1 Cultivate creation of a permanent endowment fund 
 
9.1.1: Develop an endowment strategy, build a permanent endowment fund and ensure its 
autonomy from ADA University. 
 
9.1.2: Create and develop a Culture of Philanthropy. 
 
9.1.3: Develop a robust prospect pipeline at all levels of giving. 
 
9.1.4: Revitalize and enhance engagement efforts with alumni, parents and friends. 
 
9.1.5: Involve and retain professional and skilled development staff. 
 
9.1.6: Develop innovative methods for communication with all parties. 
 
9.1.7: Align with the University’s non-traditional revenue generation efforts. 
 
9.1.8: Consolidate endowment building, fundraising and sponsorship initiatives and manage 
any outreach to potential donor and/or sponsor from one single point, i.e. ADA University 
Foundation. 

9.2 Sustain a healthy and growing tuition income base, while utilizing available financial 
resources most efficiently 
 
9.2.1: Reconsider the existing tuition rates across all programs and fix them through 
 
2020, based on financial feasibility and sustainability of the University. 
 
9.2.2: Design and operate scholarship and fellowship policies to continue rewarding merit, 
while also ensuring financial sustainability of schools and their programs. 
 
9.2.3: Create Office of Sponsored Research and Grants (OSRG) that has close coordination 
both with academic units (through Vice Rector of Academic Affairs) and single-point 
mentioned on initiative 9.1.8, ensure all centers, research awards and grants are underwritten 
through outside funding with support of OSRG. 
 
9.2.4: Set the overhead expense rate at initially 25 percent, gradually increase it, and strictly 
enforce the overhead expense policy through all projects and programs offered by the 
University. 
 
9.2.5: Optimize budget planning, monitoring and analysis to achieve a balanced appropriation 
of financial resources. 
 
9.2.6: Optimize the use of Enterprise Resource Planning tools to benefit from efficiencies, 
transparency, accountability and better streamline the business processes throughout the 
university.

ADA University 
Policy and Procedures Strategic Plan 2025 

9.3 Design and build facilities to support academic programs and their growth 
 
9.3.1: Complete the facilities under construction to house ADA University College. 
 
9.3.2: Complete the facilities and technological infrastructure needed to make School of 
Information Technology and Engineering (SITE) fully functional. 
 
9.3.3: Build a new University Library to increase the capacity to better serve faculty and 
student body. 
 
9.3.4: Launch an A-Lab, as a center for innovation and entrepreneurship, also serving public 
and community outside ADA University. 
 
9.3.5: Mandate CIO to ensure that the University technology plan is consistent and advanced 
during the growth of the campus. 

9.4 Design and build facilities to support lifestyle and needs of campus community, while also 
creating non-traditional and stable income sources 
 
9.4.1: Build student housing with a number of rooms no less than the total number of first-year 
students at full capacity, which would host both national and international students, and also 
serve as a source of revenue. 
 
9.4.2: Build faculty housing to decrease operating expenses related to apartment rent, also 
leverage these facilities to retain faculty and earn additional revenue for the University. 
 
9.4.3: Build guest housing to decrease operating expenses related to hotel accommodation, 
also operate it commercially to earn additional revenue for the University. 
 
9.4.4: Build an Athletic Center and operate it commercially to generate additional source of 
revenue from outside memberships. 
 
9.4.5: Better manage multiple food and beverage facilities to continuously improve quality of 
their service and offer affordable prices, while also generating additional revenue from outside 
campus customers and corporate accounts. 
 
9.4.6: Attract conventions and conferences onto the campus and build them as a steady source 
of revenue. 
 
9.4.7: Use a portion of assets of the ADA University Foundation as a Venture Capital Fund to 
invest in start-ups and earn steady revenues. 
 
9.4.8: Benefit from ADA Science and Innovation Park as a steady source of revenue for the 
permanent endowment fund.