

===== PAGE 1 =====
1 | P a g e 
 
2.4.2 STUDENT ASSESSMENT REGULATIONS 

1. Purpose 
 
Student assessment is an essential component of the educational process. The purpose of this 
document is to outline specific rules and proceedings for the design of assessments, the conduct of 
examinations, and for the assessment of student academic performance at ADA University. 
 
2. Scope and Recommendations 
 
This regulation applies to all undergraduate and graduate degree programs (as well as to all non-degree 
programs and to the English for Academic and Professional Purposes Program) offered face-to-face, or 
in a blended or online format at ADA University. It provides a framework for the evaluation of student 
performance and of the achievement of learning outcomes on the level of courses and programs. 
 
Students and teachers as well as administrative staff involved in the process of student assessment are 
expected to be thoroughly familiar with the rules and proceedings delineated in this document. 
 
Students and teachers are strongly recommended to consult ADA University’s Online Education and 
Assessment Regulations for courses and programs offered in the blended or online format and/or for 
assessments that are conducted online. 
 
Students are expected to be thoroughly familiar with ADA University’s Honor Code. They are 
recommended to consult ADA University’s Student Appeal and Grievance Policy for any complaints or 
disagreements over academic matters that cannot be resolved among the involved parties. 

3. Definitions 
 
Assessment Criteria delineate precise requirements for the achievement of learning outcomes. These 
requirements are clearly defined statements of what a student is expected to demonstrate during or at 
the end of a process of learning in order to have partly or fully achieved a specific learning outcome. 
They thus provide detailed guidelines for the evaluation of assessment tasks. 
 
Assessment Tasks are assignments that serve to determine the level on which students have achieved 
specific learning outcomes in a course or unit of study. 
 
Assessment Types are categories of assignments that serve different purposes during the educational 
process. 
 
The term Assessment Method comprises both assessment tasks and assessment types. 
 
A Capstone Project is an independent group study assignment that is to be completed in the second 
year of a Master degree program.


===== PAGE 2 =====
2 | P a g e 
 
Academic Integrity is a fundamental guiding principle according to which every educational and research 
activity is to be conducted in an honest, responsible and altogether ethical manner. Most importantly, 
this principle precludes any kind of cheating and plagiarism as well as the awarding of grades and 
degrees based on anything else but the performance of students and their attainment of course learning 
outcomes and program requirements. 
 
Contract Cheating represents a breach of academic integrity. It is a form of academic dishonesty in 
which an assessment task that was supposedly completed by one student (or a group of students) and 
that has been submitted for evaluation was instead (fully, substantially, or to a significant degree) 
prepared by a third party. It applies to all cases in which a third party was involved, and this regardless 
of the third party’s relationship to the student (or group of students) and whether the third party received 
any sort of remuneration from the student (or group of students). It also applies to cases in which 
someone other than a student sits (or attempts to sit) an exam on behalf of that student. 
 
The Grade Scale Percentage is a numerical expression of a student’s performance in an assessment 
task. 
 
Grade Points are a numerical equivalent to the Grade Scale Percentage achieved by a student in an 
assessment task. They furthermore serve to express the overall performance of student in a course or 
unit of study. As such, they are calculated in the following manner: (1) For each assessment task, grade 
points are assigned. (2) The grade points for each assessment task are multiplied by its percentage 
weight (which is the relative contribution of an assessment task to the overall grade of a course or unit 
of study). (3) The resulting products are added up to produce the final grade assigned to a student in a 
course or unit of study. 
 
Grade Descriptors are terms that serve to express a student’s level of performance in a specific 
assessment task, course or unit of study. 
 
Grade Descriptions provide definitions of grade descriptors. Grade descriptions are based on the level 
on which learning outcomes are achieved. This level of achievement is indicated by the extent to which 
assessment criteria are fulfilled. The latter presupposes that learning outcomes and assessment 
methods are aligned (for details, see ADA University’s Curriculum and Course Development Policy and 
its Core Competence and Learning Outcome Specification Policy). 
 
A Grading Rubric is a scoring guide that allows for the precise evaluation of student performance in a 
specific assignment. It further specifies (subdivides) grade descriptors and thus explicates the 
achievement of grade scale percentages and the allocation of grade points. 
 
The Term Grade Point Average (TGPA) indicates a student’s academic performance during a specific 
semester or term. It is calculated in the following manner: (1) For each unit of study considered, grade 
points earned are multiplied by credit hours attempted. (2) The resulting values for all the units of study 
considered are added up. (3) The resulting sum is then divided by the credit hours attempted that 
semester or term. The term GPA does not cover units of study evaluated on a Pass/Fail basis, and it 
only includes the highest grade earned in a repeated course. 
 
The Cumulative GPA (CGPA) indicates a student’s overall academic performance in a degree program. 
It is calculated in the same manner as the Term Grade Point Average, but includes all units of study 
attempted by the time of calculation. Grades from approved transfer courses taken at another institution


===== PAGE 3 =====
3 | P a g e 
 
do not count towards a student’s cumulative GPA at ADA University. Neither do units of study evaluated 
on a Pass/Fail basis. The cumulative GPA only includes the highest grade earned in a repeated course. 
 
A Student Transcript is a standardized document that serves as an official record of a student’s 
performance. It includes all the credits and grades earned by a student for a specific degree program. 

4. Assessment: Purposes, Types, Directives 
 
4.1 Purposes of Assessment 
a. Student assessment at ADA University is a deliberate process that must serve specific and well- 
defined purposes. 
b. Assessment of Learning serves the purpose of evaluating the attainment of learning outcomes 
and of measuring the level on which students have achieved specific learning outcomes. This 
purpose can be accomplished by a wide range of formative and summative assessment tasks. 
c. Assessment for Learning serves the purpose of providing teachers with reliable evidence on the 
learning progress of their students. It can thus inform the teaching and learning process in a 
course or unit of study and allow teachers to determine subsequent teaching and learning 
activities. This purpose is mainly accomplished by diagnostic and formative assessment tasks. 
d. Assessment as Learning serves the purpose of supporting students to reflect upon their own 
learning progress and approaches to learning. It can thus enable students to adjust their learning 
strategies and become more self-reliant, goal-oriented and successful in their learning. This 
purpose is mainly accomplished by formative and ipsative assessment tasks. 
e. Assessment for Accountability and for Certification serves two purposes. Firstly, it serves to 
provide evidence to the public in general and to the public administration in particular that the 
University fulfills its mission. Secondly, it serves to document that the University fulfills the 
requirements of national and international accrediting agencies and of similar certifying 
organizations. This purpose can best be accomplished by means of aggregate data on student 
performance at the program, School and institutional level. 
 
4.2 Types of Assessment 
a. A variety of assessment types are used at ADA University in order to support and evaluate the 
learning progress of students. Students must furthermore have the opportunity to demonstrate 
acquired competencies in different forms of assessment tasks. These rules apply to all courses 
offered face-to-face or via a blended or online learning format. 
b. Criterion-Referenced Assessment: This type of assessment compares the performance of 
students to pre-defined criteria. All courses or units of study and all assignments at ADA 
University are criterion-referenced in that they base the evaluation of a student’s performance 
on clearly defined assessment criteria. These criteria as well as appropriate assessment tasks 
are delineated in the course description of each course. A multitude of assessment tasks serve 
the purpose of criterion-based assessment, ranging from quizzes and multiple choice question 
tests to written and oral examinations and to individual study projects. 
c. Diagnostic Assessment: This type of assessment is conducted at the beginning of a process of 
learning. It evaluates the current performance of students (their strengths and weaknesses) in a 
particular field and thus allows for an adjustment of the teaching and learning process at the 
outset of a course. Diagnostic assessments can also be used before and after a process of 
learning in order to evaluate the (individual and collective) learning progress of students in a 
course or unit of learning. Assessment tasks that serve this purpose include quizzes, mind


===== PAGE 4 =====
4 | P a g e 
 
maps, in-class discussions, written exams, learning diaries and other forms of individual 
reflection. 
d. Formative Assessment: This type of assessment is conducted during a process of learning. It 
provides insights into the learning progress of students, and it thus allows for an adjustment of 
the teaching and learning process in order to improve student performance and the attainment 
of learning outcomes. Assessment tasks that serve this purpose include quizzes, in-class 
discussions, presentations, essays, peer feedback activities, group projects, learning diaries, or 
portfolios. 
e. Summative Assessment: This type of assessment is conducted at the end of a process of 
learning. It evaluates the attainment of learning outcomes at the conclusion of a course or unit 
of study. Assessment tasks that serve this purpose include multiple choice question tests, 
unseen written exams, open book exams, oral exams, term papers, or group projects. 
f. Ipsative assessment: This type of assessment can be used at any stage of the learning process. 
It is a self-referential type of assessment that compares a student’s previous performance 
(grades or achievements in a specific field) with his/her current performance, thus allowing for 
an evaluation of the individual student’s learning progress. Ipsative assessments can be used 
to induce students to focus on their own performance and improvements instead of comparing 
themselves to other students. Assessment tasks that serve this purpose include portfolios, 
individual projects, learning diaries and other forms of individual reflection. 
 
4.3 Directives for Assessment 
a. Academic Freedom: It is the prerogative and responsibility of faculty to define assessment types 
and tasks for all courses or units of study and to establish appropriate assessment criteria. 
b. Purpose: Assessment tasks must be designed purposefully. They must allow for the evaluation 
of student performance and/or provide evidence on the learning progress of students and/or 
enable them to improve their learning. 
c. Alignment: Assessment tasks must be aligned with learning activities and with the intended 
learning outcomes of a course or unit of study. Learning outcomes and assessment criteria must 
be aligned throughout a degree program and allow for a gradual learning progress of students 
(for details, see ADA University’s Core Competence and Learning Outcome Specification 
Policy). 
d. Validity: Assessment tasks and assessment criteria must clearly address the intended learning 
outcomes of a course or unit of study. They must thus effectively measure student achievement 
of these learning outcomes. 
e. Equivalence: Similar courses offered in different modes (face-to-face, blended, or online) may 
vary in their chosen assessment tasks, but they must ensure equivalence in terms of 
assessment criteria and in terms of the evaluation of the attainment of learning outcomes. 
f. Disclosure: Assessment tasks and assessment criteria must be clearly specified and defined in 
each course description or in an equivalent document (such as the Master Thesis and Capstone 
Project Handbook). 
g. Reliability: Assessment tasks must reflect the teaching and learning process within a course or 
unit of study. The evaluation of assessments must be consistent and be based on clearly defined 
assessment criteria. 
h. Variety: A range of assessment methods must be employed in order to cover different learning 
outcomes and/or levels of learning outcomes. 
i. Authenticity: Assessment tasks must be meaningful and should, whenever possible, reflect real- 
life contexts and scenarios as well as the conditions and requirements of professional 
environments. 
j. Clarity: Assessment tasks must be phrased in an unambiguous and intelligible manner.


===== PAGE 5 =====
5 | P a g e 
 
k. Adequacy: Assessment tasks must be appropriate in length and correspond to the level of 
courses and students. 
l. Inclusiveness: Assessment tasks should be equitable and not disadvantage any group of 
students (as far as this is possible without compromising course or program requirements). In 
order to embrace the diversity of students, a range of assessment tasks should be employed, 
and assignments should (whenever appropriate) incorporate choice. 
m. Support: Assessment tasks are intended to guide the learning activities of students towards the 
attainment of learning outcomes. They furthermore serve to diagnose weaknesses in student 
performance that can thus be effectively addressed during the teaching and learning process. 
n. Guidance: Students must be provided with timely and effective feedback on their performance 
in assessments. This allows them to potentially adjust their learning activities and thus to 
improve their attainment of learning outcomes as well as their performance in subsequent 
assessment tasks. 
o. Integrity: Assignments must be designed and conducted in a manner that minimizes the risk of 
plagiarism and other kinds of cheating (including contract cheating). Students must be provided 
with clear instructions on how to avoid breaches of academic integrity. 

5. Conduct of Examinations 
 
5.1 Final Examination Regulations 
a. Final examinations take place at the end of the Fall semester (January), at the end of the Spring 
semester (May), and at the end of the Summer term (July). In the program Master of Business 
Administration, courses run for 7 weeks, and final exams are conducted accordingly. 
b. Final examinations are scheduled by the Office of Admissions and Student Records. 
c. Students with two exams scheduled at the same time, and students with three or more exams 
on one day should submit a request to reschedule exams to the Dean’s Office of their respective 
School. This request must be submitted via email no later than 3 days after the announcement 
of the examination schedule. 
d. Provided that rescheduling is possible, the exam from the course with the lowest enrollment will 
be rescheduled. All efforts must be made by the Office of Admissions and Student Records and 
by the Dean’s Offices of all the Schools involved to resolve schedule conflicts. Rescheduled 
exams must take place during the respective examination period. 
e. An unexcused absence during a final exam may result in an Academic Fail (F or FZ) grade for 
the respective course and/or in similar sanctions. Students who can offer a compelling reason 
for their absence during a final exam may be eligible for a deferred exam. Deferred exams must 
differ from the original exam, but they must be on the same level of assessment. They take place 
either during or shortly after the respective examination period or by the end of the following 
semester. Students who are eligible for a deferred exam will be assigned an Incomplete (I or IP) 
grade, which must be replaced by a valid grade by the end of the following semester or be 
converted into an Academic Fail (F or FZ) grade. 
f. Students must adhere to any additional rules and proceedings issued by their respective School. 
In case these additional rules and proceedings contradict ADA University’s official examination 
rules and proceedings, the latter will always prevail. 
 
5.2 In-Class Examination Rules and Proceedings 
a. The following rules and proceedings apply to all in-class examinations at the undergraduate and 
graduate level.


===== PAGE 6 =====
6 | P a g e 
 
b. Students must be on time for all in-class examinations. Students who arrive late for an exam 
may be admitted to the examination room, but they will not be given any additional time to 
compensate for their delay. 
c. Students are not permitted to wear coats, scarves, hats, or any outdoor clothing during 
examinations. Teachers and proctors will request students to remove such clothing for the 
duration of the exam. No clothing may be kept on desks during examinations. 
d. All mobile phones and smart devices (including smart watches) must be switched off or to silent 
mode (with vibration deactivated) during examinations. They must be put face/screen down on 
the teacher’s or proctor’s desk. Failure to comply with this rule will be treated as a violation of 
the University’s Honor Code. 
e. Students must bring their own pens, pencils, and any other equipment required for each exam. 
f. Students are not allowed to bring any kind of paper to exams. Exam sheets will be provided by 
the University. 
g. For examinations requiring the use of a calculator, only non-programmable, non-text storing 
calculators are permitted (unless specified otherwise by the teacher). 
h. Talking or communicating in any way with other students is forbidden during an exam. Failure 
to comply with this rule will be treated as a violation of the University’s Honor Code. 
i. The teacher and proctor have the authority to assign and reassign seats to students prior and 
during an exam. 
j. Students are strictly forbidden to be in possession of any kind of notes, documents or other 
unauthorized material during examinations. Failure to comply with this rule will be treated as a 
violation of the University’s Honor Code. 
k. In open-book exams, students are not allowed to bring any materials other than those permitted 
by the teacher of the respective course. The teacher will provide students with a list of permitted 
materials prior to the exam. 
l. To avoid disruptions of the examination process, students are not allowed to bring food into the 
examination room (unless medical authorization is provided). Water may be consumed during 
examinations. 
m. In case of questions or any issues students wish to point out during an exam (including potential 
errors in the exam paper), they are to raise their hand and wait for the teacher or proctor to 
approach them. They are not allowed to communicate with anyone else. 
n. Students are only allowed to leave the examination room upon the completion of their exam. In 
exceptional circumstances they may be permitted to leave the room under the conditions set by 
the teacher or proctor. Students are not allowed to leave the examination room during the first 
30 minutes of an exam. 
o. Students are to stop writing immediately when told to do so by the teacher or proctor at the end 
of an exam. 
p. Students bear full responsibility for the consequences of illegible writing. What cannot be read 
will be considered to be incorrect. 
q. Students are expected to be familiar with the Honor Code of ADA University and with all 
documents relevant to the conduct of examinations. 
r. In case of any suspected violation of the Honor Code during an exam, a student will be given a 
first oral warning, and he/she may be allocated a new seat. With the second warning, the exam 
will be taken away, and the student’s examination result will be annulled. The student’s name 
will be reported to the administration, and the case will be referred to ADA University’s Honor 
Committee. Penalties for misconduct will be (1) zero points for the exam, (2) an Administrative 
Fail (FX) grade for the entire course, and/or (3) further disciplinary action taken by the Honor 
Committee. In case the student is in his/her first semester at ADA University (Forgiveness


===== PAGE 7 =====
7 | P a g e 
 
Period), and if it is his/her first violation of the Honor Code, the student will only be assigned 
zero points for the respective exam without any further consequences. 
s. The teacher of a course may define examination rules and proceedings in addition to those 
delineated in 5.2.b to 5.2.r. In case these additional rules and proceedings contradict ADA 
University’s official examination rules and proceedings, the latter will always prevail. 
 
5.3 Take-Home Examination Rules and Proceedings 
a. The following rules and proceedings apply to all take-home examinations at the undergraduate 
and graduate level. They cover all independent assignments that are to be completed (either 
individually or as a group work) outside of class (further rules for Master Theses and Capstone 
Projects are delineated below in 6.11). 
b. Students are to avoid any kind of cheating and plagiarism. It is the teacher’s or supervisor’s 
responsibility to inform students about the rules and proceedings applying to a specific take- 
home exam. 
c. Students must submit take-home examinations electronically, using software-assisted 
plagiarism detection. This rule applies regardless of a teacher’s hardcopy requirements. It is the 
teacher’s responsibility to provide students with all the information relevant to the proper 
submission of take-home examinations. Students are expected to contact the University’s IT 
Service Desk for assistance in case of any technical problems when trying to submit 
assignments electronically. 
d. If a student fails to submit a take-home exam in the manner described in 5.3.c, and if the student 
can state a compelling reason for his/her failure to do so, the teacher must ensure that the 
respective take-home exam is checked by plagiarism detection software. 
e. All submitted take-home exams must include the following (dated and signed) Declaration of 
Academic Integrity: “I hereby confirm that this assignment is my own work and that I have 
acknowledged all sources used in its preparation. I am conscious that the incorporation of any 
material from other works (including the work of other students and/or persons) without 
acknowledgement will be treated as plagiarism and be subject to the regulations outlined in ADA 
University’s Honor Code and its Student Assessment Regulations. I furthermore confirm that 
this assignment (in whole or in part) has not been submitted for assessment to any other course 
at ADA University or at any other institution of higher education.” 
f. In case of any suspected violation of the Honor Code in a take-home exam, the student’s name 
will be reported to the administration, and the case will be referred to ADA University’s Honor 
Committee. Penalties for misconduct will be (1) zero points for the assignment, (2) an 
Administrative Fail (FX) grade for the entire course, and/or (3) further disciplinary action taken 
by the Honor Committee. In case the student is in his/her first semester at ADA University 
(Forgiveness Period), and if it is his/her first violation of the Honor Code, the student will only be 
assigned zero points for the respective assignment without any further consequences. 
g. Any assessment task submitted after the respective submission deadline is considered as a late 
submission. The penalty for the late submission of an assignment consists of a reduction of the 
original grade that would have been allocated in case of the assignment’s timely submission. 
Starting with the first minute after the submission deadline, and for every 24-hour interval during 
which the assignment is late (including weekends and holidays), 10% of the original Grade Scale 
Percentage will be deduced. This rule will be applied until the assignment is submitted or until 
the Grade Scale Percentage has reached zero (00). In cases where an extension has been 
granted by the course’s teacher, this rule applies once the extension deadline has expired. An 
extension may be granted only for compelling reasons. In no case will assignments be accepted 
for submission after those assignments that had been handed in on time have been graded and 
returned to students


===== PAGE 8 =====
8 | P a g e 
 
5.4 Oral Examination Rules and Proceedings 
a. The following rules and proceedings apply to all oral examinations at the undergraduate and 
graduate level. Specific rules for the oral defense of Master Theses are delineated below in 6.11. 
b. Oral examinations may be chosen as a form of student assessment if so provided for in a degree 
program’s description. 
c. Oral examinations last between 15 and 25 minutes. The precise duration of an oral exam must 
be specified in a course’s description. 
d. Oral examinations are to be conducted individually, assessing one student at a time. They are 
closed to the public, and no student other than the candidate may be present in the examination 
room during an oral exam. 
e. Students must be on time for all oral examinations. Students who arrive late for an oral exam 
may (at the teacher’s discretion) be denied the opportunity to take the exam. 
f. All mobile phones and smart devices (including smart watches) must be switched off or to silent 
mode (with vibration deactivated) during examinations. They must be put face/screen down on 
the teacher’s desk. Students are strictly forbidden to record oral exams. Failure to comply with 
any or all of these rules will be treated as a violation of the University’s Honor Code. 
g. During oral examinations, students are not allowed to use any materials other than those 
permitted by the teacher of the respective course. The teacher will provide students with a list 
of permitted materials prior to the exam. 
h. It is the teacher’s responsibility to ensure a sufficient scope of the tasks allocated to students. 
This is meant to minimize the opportunity for students to exchange relevant information outside 
of the examination room and thus to influence examination results. 
i. Oral examinations are recorded by the examining teacher, using University equipment. All 
recordings will be retained by the teacher and the respective School’s administration and may 
only be deleted after a student’s graduation. 
j. The teacher will assign a grade upon the completion of each individual exam. Students may only 
receive their grades and any kind of feedback on their performance once all candidates from the 
respective course have been examined. 
k. In case of any suspected violation of the Honor Code during an exam, the respective individual 
exam will be terminated with immediate effect, and no grade will be assigned. The student’s 
name will be reported to the administration, and the case will be referred to ADA University’s 
Honor Committee. Penalties for misconduct will be (1) zero points for the exam, (2) an 
Administrative Fail (FX) grade for the entire course, and/or (3) further disciplinary action taken 
by the Honor Committee. In case the student is in his/her first semester at ADA University 
(Forgiveness Period), and if it is his/her first violation of the Honor Code, the student will only be 
assigned zero points for the respective exam without any further consequences. 
l. At their discretion, teachers may conduct additional oral exams in order to verify the results of 
previously completed (written) assignments. They may be conducted regardless of a student’s 
previous performance. Teachers must ensure that the content and level of verification exams 
correspond to the content and level of the previous assignment for which the result is to be 
verified. 
 
5.5 Inclusiveness of the Examination Process 
a. All possible and reasonable measures must be taken to ensure that students can participate 
equitably in examinations. This rule applies to all in-class and take-home examinations. 
b. It is the shared responsibility of teachers, Schools, ADA University’s Student Academic Support 
Services, and the University’s Information Technology Services to create equal opportunities for


===== PAGE 9 =====
9 | P a g e 
 
all students and to ensure that examinations are conducted in an inclusive and equitable 
manner. 
c. Measures that may be taken include (but are not limited to) extending the time allowed for the 
completion of an examination; giving permission to students with special needs to use additional 
technical devices; adjusting exam sheets to improve legibility; supporting students with special 
needs to access the examination room; and supporting students with internet and/or hardware 
problems. 
d. Students with special needs or with chronic health issues are strongly recommended to contact 
the University’s Student Academic Support Services well ahead of examination dates. Students 
with recurring or permanent internet and/or hardware problems are strongly recommended to 
contact the University’s IT Service Desk and/or the Blackboard Administrator well ahead of 
examination dates. 
e. The issues of inclusiveness and equity are further delineated in ADA University’s Equity, 
Diversity and Non-Discrimination Policy. 

6. Evaluation of Academic Performance 
 
6.1 Grading, Grade Submission and Information Regulations 
a. The evaluation of assessment tasks is the responsibility of faculty. It must be based on clearly 
defined assessment criteria and on grading rubrics (for details, see chapter 7 of ADA University’s 
Core Competence and Learning Outcome Specification Policy). 
b. Blind grading is to be implemented whenever possible. For this purpose, student work is stripped 
of all information that might reveal a student’s identity. 
c. The evaluation of assessment tasks that require group work should recognize individual 
contributions and assign individual marks to all members of the respective group. 
d. Assessment tasks must be assigned a precise percentage weight. No single grading component 
of a course taught at ADA University shall exceed 40% of the overall course grade. 
e. All regulations related to the assessment of student performance (including assessment tasks, 
assessment weighting, assessment criteria, and assessment submission) are to be clearly 
delineated in each course’s description, which is to made available to students on the LMS 
platform (Blackboard Learn) prior to the beginning of a course. Teachers are encouraged to 
remind students of these regulations during the semester. 
f. Any subsequent changes to the assessment regulations outlined in a course description require 
the approval of the respective Program Director and will be permissible only in exceptional 
cases. They must be clearly and promptly communicated to students in class and via Blackboard 
Learn. 
g. Student assessment should take place throughout the semester, and students should have the 
opportunity to complete at least 30% of a course’s grading components (assessment tasks) 
before the end of the withdrawal period (withdrawal deadlines for each term are announced in 
the University’s Academic Calendar prior to the beginning of an academic year). 
h. In order to enhance the effectiveness of teaching and learning, teachers must provide students 
with regular and meaningful feedback on their performance in assessment tasks and on their 
overall learning progress in a course. Feedback must be provided within 2 weeks after the 
completion or submission deadline of an assessment task and prior to the submission date of 
any subsequent assignment. It must offer guidance to students on how to improve the quality of 
their work and their overall performance on a course. It should support students in identifying 
their strengths as well as areas for improvement without undermining their confidence and 
motivation. Teachers will furthermore post an interim grade on Blackboard Learn by the


===== PAGE 10 =====
10 | P a g e 
 
beginning of the seventh week of classes (Fall semester and Spring semester) and no later than 
mid-term (Summer term). 
i. Students are expected to collect their graded work prior to any subsequent assessment task in 
order to be able to reflect upon their performance and to benefit from the feedback provided by 
the teacher. 
j. Teachers are to keep a record of all grades assigned and feedback provided to students. 
k. Teachers must enter all individual assessment grades on Blackboard Learn. They must ensure 
that the grades for at least 30% of a course’s grading components (assessment tasks) are 
available to students on Blackboard Learn by the midterm grade due date (midterm grade due 
dates for each term are announced in the University’s Academic Calendar prior to the beginning 
of an academic year). 
l. After having entered all individual assessment grades on Blackboard Learn, teachers must 
transfer the resulting final grades for a course to Banner and thus submit it to the Office of 
Admissions and Student Records no later than 96 hours after the completion of a course’s final 
exam. All final grades must thus be submitted before the final grade submission deadline (final 
grade submission deadlines for each term are announced in the University’s Academic Calendar 
prior to the beginning of an academic year). Students are entitled to receive their final grades no 
later than 96 hours after the completion of the respective examination period. 
m. All final grades are kept in Banner, and students are able to access these grades on Banner. 
The Office of Admissions and Student Records maintains all grades and records them on each 
student’s transcript. 
n. All grades are strictly confidential and are only accessible to the individual student, to the Office 
of Admissions and Student Records, to select administrative members of the student’s 
respective School, to the Grievance Committee of that School (only in case of unresolved 
complaints or disagreements over academic matters), or to ADA University’s Honor Committee 
(only in case of any suspected violation of the Honor Code). In no case shall a grade be disclosed 
to anyone else. Committees may only see those grades that are required to resolve complaints, 
disagreements, or violations of the Honor Code. 
 
6.2 Regrading of Assessment Tasks 
a. Regrading of assessment tasks is only permissible if there is evidence that assessment criteria 
were not applied adequately and/or equitably. 
b. In cases where students assume that assessment criteria were not applied adequately and/or 
equitably in the evaluation of an assignment, they are recommended to discuss the respective 
grade with the course’s teacher. 
c. If the teacher accepts the student’s complaint, he/she shall regrade the respective assignment 
and allocate a new grade within 2 working days. 
d. If the teacher rejects the student’s complaint, or if the student assumes that regrading has not 
been undertaken adequately and/or equitably, the student may request mediation by the 
respective Program Director. In cases where students feel hesitant to initially discuss the matter 
with the course’s teacher, they may consult their Academic Advisor, who will submit the case 
directly to the Program Director. 
e. After having consulted both parties, and after having evaluated the case (including assignment, 
assessment criteria, and grade), the Program Director will decide whether the assignment must 
be regraded. If the Program Director accepts the student’s request for regrading, he/she shall 
regrade the assignment within 2 working days. 
f. If the Program Director rejects the student’s request for regrading, or if the student assumes that 
regrading has not been undertaken adequately and/or equitably, the student may submit a 
formal complaint to the Dean of the respective School (using the Student Appeal and Grievance


===== PAGE 11 =====
11 | P a g e 
 
Form) within 3 working days of the request’s rejection. The Dean will forward the complaint to 
the School’s Grievance Committee (together with all the information pertaining to the case), 
which will make a final decision on whether the assignment shall be regraded or not. Both the 
student and the teacher will be invited to attend the Committee’s meeting in order to state their 
case and to address potential questions. 
g. In cases where the Grievance Committee decides that the assignment must be regraded, it will 
appoint a non-involved faculty member of the respective School, who shall regrade the 
assignment within 2 working days. 
h. Student appeal and grievance procedures are further delineated in ADA University’s Student 
Appeal and Grievance Policy. 
 
6.3 Class Attendance 
a. Regular class attendance plays a significant role in the educational process. Students should 
be absent only for compelling reasons and if the absence is unavoidable. 
b. It is the teacher’s responsibility to record class attendance at the beginning of each class. 
c. Absences may adversely affect a student’s grade. Students are required to catch up with and 
complete all the coursework missed due to absence. If a student is unable to complete all the 
required coursework by the end of the term, he/she may receive an Incomplete (I or IP) grade 
at the teacher’s discretion. 
d. Students are expected to be on time for classes. Students who are late by 5 minutes or more 
(tardiness) may be allowed to join the class at the teacher’s discretion, but they will receive an 
absent mark. 
e. Students who miss more than twenty-five percent (25%) of classes will be assigned an 
Administrative Fail (FX or ZX) grade. 
f. In courses of the English for Academic and Professional Purposes (EAPP) Program, ten percent 
(10%) of the total course grade will be based on class attendance. Depending on the number of 
classes, students are allowed to be absent for up to two or four times in a 7.5-week session, and 
for up to four or eight times in a 15-week session (see table below; for details on the EAPP 
Program, see ADA University’s English for Academic and Professional Purposes Regulations). 
For each additional absence, a student will lose 2.5% of the overall course grade. Four additional 
absences will accordingly exhaust the ten percent of the overall grade allocated to class 
attendance. 
 
Weeks per Session 
Number of Classes per Course 
Number of Excused Absences 
30 
2 
7.5 Weeks 
30 / 38 
2 
52 
4 
45 
4 
15 Weeks 
60 
4 
94 
8 
 
g. Individual teachers may have additional attendance requirements. It is the student’s 
responsibility to be thoroughly familiar with these requirements and to consult the teacher in 
case of questions.


===== PAGE 12 =====
12 | P a g e 
 
6.4 Grading System 
a. Grading at ADA University is based on the criterion-referenced grading systems commonly used 
in the U.S. education system (see the following table and the table in 6.5). 
 
Grade 
Grade Points 
Grade Scale Percentage 
Grade Descriptor 
A 
4.00 
94 – 100 
Excellent 
A- 
3.67 
90 – 93 
B+ 
3.33 
87 – 89 
B 
3.00 
83 – 86 
Good 
B- 
2.67 
80 – 82 
C+ 
2.33 
77-79 
C 
2.00 
73-76 
Satisfactory 
C- 
1.67 
70-72 
D+ 
1.33 
67-69 
Poor 
D 
1.00 
60-66 
F 
0.00 
00-59 
Academic Fail 
FX 
0.00 
00 
Administrative Fail 
 
b. The following grade descriptions serve to define the grade descriptors mentioned in the table 
above. For each course, grade descriptions (including assessment criteria) are further specified 
in the respective course description that is made available to students prior to the beginning of 
the course. 
c. Excellent indicates that a student has fully achieved all the intended learning outcomes of a 
course. The student’s performance has completely fulfilled all of the assessment criteria of the 
course. 
d. Good indicates that a student has largely achieved most or all of the intended learning outcomes 
of a course. The student’s performance has largely fulfilled most or all of the assessment criteria 
of the course. 
e. Satisfactory indicates that a student has partly achieved some or most of the intended learning 
outcomes of a course. The student’s performance has partly fulfilled some or most of the 
assessment criteria of the course. If only some of the assessment criteria are partly fulfilled, the 
student’s performance may not be sufficient to pass the course. 
f. Poor indicates that a student has partly achieved some of the intended learning outcomes of a 
course. The student’s performance has only minimally fulfilled some of the assessment criteria 
of the course and may thus not be sufficient to pass the course. 
g. Academic Fail indicates that a student has largely or entirely failed to achieve the intended 
learning outcomes of a course. The student’s performance has generally fallen short of the 
minimum assessment criteria of the course. 
h. Administrative Fail is assigned if a student did not satisfy the class attendance requirements 
delineated in 6.3, and/or if the student violated the University’s Honor Code.


===== PAGE 13 =====
13 | P a g e 
 
6.5 Further Grades 
a. The following table provides an overview of further grades and grade descriptors used at ADA 
University. 
 
Grade 
Grade Descriptor 
N 
No Grade / Invalid Grade 
I 
Incomplete 
W 
Withdrawal 
P 
Pass in Pass/Fail Course 
FZ 
Academic Fail in Pass/Fail Course 
ZX 
Administrative Fail in Pass/Fail Course 
IP 
Incomplete in Pass/Fail Course 
O 
Audit 
ZO 
Administrative Withdrawal from Audit 
T 
Transferred Grade 
 
b. No Grade or Invalid Grade indicates that no valid grade has been submitted. This grading 
symbol is assigned by the Office of Admissions and Student Records if a valid final grade has 
not been received before the final grade submission deadline. The Office of Admissions and 
Student Records must ensure that they obtain a valid final grade within one term or semester. 
c. Incomplete (not included in TGPA and CGPA) indicates that a student has not fully completed 
all the work required to finish a course. The Office of Admissions and Student Records must 
ensure that they obtain a valid final grade no later than the end of the following term or semester. 
d. Withdrawal from a course (not included in TGPA and CGPA) is assigned if a student pulls out of 
a course after the add/drop period and before the end of the withdrawal period, or if he/she is 
administratively removed before the end of the withdrawal period. Both the add/drop and the 
withdrawal periods for each term are announced in the University’s Academic Calendar prior to 
the beginning of an academic year. 
e. Pass in Pass/Fail Course (not included in TGPA and CGPA) indicates a certain level of student 
performance. The performance of undergraduate students must be equivalent to D or better if 
they are to be assigned a Pass grade. The performance of graduate students must be equivalent 
to C or better if they are to be assigned a Pass grade. 
f. Academic Fail in Pass/Fail Course (not included in TGPA and CGPA) indicates that the level of 
student performance was below D (undergraduate level) or below C (graduate level). 
g. Administrative Fail in Pass/Fail Course (not included in TGPA and CGPA) is assigned if a 
student did not satisfy the class attendance requirements delineated in 6.3, and/or if the student 
violated the University’s Honor Code. 
h. Incomplete in Pass/Fail Course (not included in TGPA and CGPA) indicates that a student has 
not fully completed all the work required to finish a Pass/Fail course.


===== PAGE 14 =====
14 | P a g e 
 
i. Audit (no credit and not included in TGPA and CGPA) is assigned if a student has attended a 
course but does not wish to receive credit for this course. It presupposes that the student has 
satisfied the class attendance requirements delineated in 6.3. Students who wish to audit a 
course require the prior permission of the respective teacher. 
j. Administrative Withdrawal from Audit (not included in TGPA and CGPA) is assigned if a student 
fails to meet the class attendance requirements delineated in 6.3. 
k. Transferred Grade (not included in TGPA and CGPA) indicates grades that are transferred to 
ADA University. Each transferred grade is marked with the grading symbol T that precedes the 
grade. 
l. Grades and credits that are excluded from all GPA and credit calculations (such as waived 
courses) are marked with an asterisk (*). 
 
6.6 Calculation of Final Grades 
a. Final numerical grades for courses are calculated to two decimal places and rounded to the 
nearest whole number before the corresponding letter grade is assigned. 
b. Grades are rounded according to the standard mathematical rounding system. Decimal parts 
smaller than 0.5 will be rounded down; decimal parts equal to or greater than 0.5 will be rounded 
up. A numerical grade of 93.45 will accordingly be rounded down to 93 and result in the letter 
grade A-; a numerical grade of 93.50 will be rounded up to 94 and result in the letter grade A. 
 
6.7 Incomplete Grades 
a. An Incomplete (I or IP) grade may be assigned by a teacher before the end of a semester. It will 
be submitted to the Office of Admissions and Student Records together will all the other final 
grades for the course. 
b. This grade may only be assigned if the student is prevented from completing the remaining 
coursework for compelling reasons and if this coursework can reasonably be expected to be 
completed before the end of the following semester. 
c. The teacher must provide the student and the Office of Admissions and Student Records with a 
written statement (using the Incomplete Grade Form) which details the requirements for the 
completion of the course. These requirements must specify the work that needs to be completed 
as well as the deadline for the completion of the remaining coursework. 
d. If the student does not meet the requirements specified in the Incomplete Grade Form, and if 
the teacher is thus unable to submit a valid final grade before the final grade submission deadline 
of the following semester, the Office of Admissions and Student Records will convert the 
Incomplete grade into an Academic Fail (F or FZ) grade. This also applies if a student is 
separated from the University. 
e. An Incomplete (I or IP) grade may only be removed by repeating a course once the Incomplete 
has been converted into an Academic Fail (F or FZ) grade as delineated in 6.7.d. 
f. Students may not withdraw from a course once an Incomplete grade has been submitted to the 
Office of Admissions and Student Records. 
g. An Incomplete cannot remain as a permanent grade and must be replaced by a valid final grade 
before a student will be able to graduate. This may result in a delayed graduation date. 
 
6.8 Pass/Fail Courses 
a. Students may select a certain number of courses for which they will be assigned a Pass/Fail 
grade. 
b. Undergraduate students may select no more than two Pass/Fail courses during their studies. 
c. Graduate students may select no more than one Pass/Fail course during their studies.


===== PAGE 15 =====
15 | P a g e 
 
d. Functional Enablers, Master Theses and Capstone Projects are excluded from the rules 
delineated in 6.8.a to 6.8.c. 
 
6.9 Repetition of Courses 
a. Students must repeat a course if they do not sufficiently fulfill the assessment criteria of the 
course. In the case of Technical Elective, Free Elective and some General Education courses, 
failed courses may also be replaced. 
b. Undergraduate students must repeat (or replace) courses with a grade below D. 
c. Graduate students must repeat (or replace) courses with a grade below C. 
d. Students of the English for Academic and Professional Purposes (EAPP) Program must repeat 
a level in case they receive an overall grade below C. 
e. Students are strongly recommended to repeat (or replace) a course at the earliest opportunity 
(usually in the subsequent semester, academic year, or EAPP session). 
f. Any course can be repeated as many times as necessary to pass the course or as many times 
as a student wishes (with the exception of EAPP courses). Students may thus improve the grade 
of the respective course. 
g. Students of the EAPP Program have two attempts to pass a level. They are not eligible for a 
withdrawal. 
h. Repeating (or replacing) courses may have academic implications for a student. Most 
importantly, it may adversely affect a student’s progress towards degree completion. Students 
must consult with their Academic Advisor in order to discuss potential implications of the 
repetition (or replacement) of a course and to determine ways to improve their performance. 
i. Students must also consult with the Office of Student Accounts to determine potential financial 
implications of the repetition (or replacement) of a course. 
j. Grades for each attempt of a course are recorded on the student’s transcript, but only the highest 
grade and the credit associated with that course will count towards a student’s cumulative GPA. 
Courses that are not identical in course title and course code will be recorded on the transcript, 
and each grade and the credit associated with each course will count towards a student’s 
cumulative GPA. 
k. In cases where the replacement of a failed course is not permissible and its repetition not 
possible due to the discontinuation of the course, a student may request to substitute this course 
by another course (course substitution). The latter course must be of the same level and be 
similar in content. Formal requests must be submitted to the student’s Academic Advisor by 
using the University’s Course Substitution Form. Requests must be approved by the Academic 
Advisor and by the Dean of the respective School. 
l. In cases where the replacement of a failed course is not permissible and its repetition not 
possible due to the discontinuation of the course and where a similar course is not available for 
substitution, the required course might be waived upon the approval of the Academic Advisor 
and the Dean of the respective School (course waiver). A course waiver does not reduce the 
overall credit requirements of a degree program. Students must accordingly select and 
successfully pass another course to fulfill all degree requirements. Students must consult with 
their respective Academic Advisor before selecting another course. 
m. Courses passed before separating from and reapplying to ADA University at the same level 
(undergraduate or graduate) might also be waived. Students may share up to 30 credits or 5 
courses from their previous and uncompleted program, provided that they have been passed 
with a grade of C or better no more than 5 years prior to the semester for which the student is 
reapplying to ADA University. All other courses are mandatorily waived. 
n. Grades of failed courses that are subsequently substituted or waived are recorded on the 
student’s transcript, but they are excluded from all GPA calculations.


===== PAGE 16 =====
16 | P a g e 
 
o. Withdrawal from a course counts as a repetition of a course, but it is excluded from all GPA 
calculations. A Withdrawal (W) cannot replace a grade assigned in any prior or later attempt of 
the same course. 
p. Students will not be able to graduate if they have not passed all the courses required by their 
respective degree program. 
 
6.10 Internships 
a. All undergraduate degree programs include an internship component. With the exception of the 
Bachelor of Laws program, the internship component consists of the course Career 
Development Skills and Strategies, which is comprised of a first (and theoretical) part and of the 
internship itself. The latter must cover at least 120 hours of work over a period of at least 4 to 6 
weeks. 
b. The internship component is evaluated on a Pass/Fail basis (P or FZ). 
c. Undergraduate students must initially (in the Fall semester of their third year) and successfully 
pass the first part of the course Career Development Skills and Strategies. After having passed 
this first part of the course, students will receive an Incomplete (IP) grade. Students who fail the 
first part of the course will receive an Academic Fail (FZ) grade and must retake it before being 
eligible for the internship. Grades for each attempt are recorded on the student’s transcript. 
d. Students must subsequently (in the Spring semester or Summer term of the same academic 
year) and successfully complete an internship. The evaluation of the internship is the 
responsibility of an assigned Career Advisor from ADA University’s Career Services. This 
evaluation must also include an assessment by the student’s workplace supervisor. After having 
successfully completed and passed the internship, students will receive a Pass (P) grade for the 
entire course Career Development Skills and Strategies. Students who fail the internship must 
retake it and retain the Incomplete (IP) grade until they have successfully completed and passed 
the internship. 
e. Regulations for the internship component of the Bachelor of Laws program are delineated in the 
program’s description. 
f. Graduate students may choose to take an internship (voluntary internship). This internship 
would be taken as part of the Technical Elective component of the student’s program. 
 
6.11 Master Theses and Capstone Projects 
a. With the exception of the program Master of Business Administration (MBA), a Master Thesis 
or Capstone Project is an integral part of the degree requirements of all graduate programs at 
ADA University. The MBA program requires either a Master Thesis, a Business Consultancy 
Project, or a Business Plan (detailed regulations are outlined in the MBA program description). 
b. At the beginning of their second year, graduate students require a minimum cumulative GPA of 
3.50 to be eligible to enroll in the course Master Thesis I. All other students will enroll in the 
course Capstone I. Students who successfully complete the course Master Thesis I will write a 
Master Thesis during their last semester. Students who successfully complete the course 
Capstone I, and students who fail to pass the course Master Thesis I will complete a Capstone 
Project during their last semester. Students who fail to complete the course Capstone I must 
repeat the course. Graduate programs of the School of Business and the School of IT and 
Engineering may have different regulations, which will be specified in the descriptions of the 
respective programs. 
c. Most of the University’s graduate programs require that Master Theses are graded on a 
Pass/Fail basis (P or FZ; exceptions are specified in the descriptions of the respective 
programs). Grades are assigned by the members of the Defense Committee (which includes the 
supervisor of the thesis) for the written Master Thesis and for the oral defense of the thesis.


===== PAGE 17 =====
17 | P a g e 
 
A student must pass both the Master Thesis and the oral defense in order to successfully 
complete the entire Master Thesis project. The Defense Committee may request minor revisions 
of the thesis before assigning a final grade, which will be assigned by the majority of the 
Committee’s members. 
d. Most of the University’s graduate programs require that Capstone Projects are graded on a 
Pass/Fail basis (P or FZ; exceptions are specified in the descriptions of the respective 
programs). Grades are assigned by the supervisor of the project. In most of the University’s 
graduate programs, the Capstone Project consists of a group project (the MBA program requires 
that students complete a final project that consists of an individual study assignment). At the 
completion of the project (and notwithstanding the recommendation outlined in 6.1.c), all group 
members are assigned the same grade. The supervisor may request minor revisions of the 
(individual or group) project before assigning a final grade. The Capstone Project does not 
require an oral defense. 
e. Master Thesis and Capstone Project requirements and assessment criteria as well as 
regulations pertaining to the role of the Defense Committee and of the supervisor are delineated 
in ADA University’s Master Thesis and Capstone Project Handbook. 
f. The grade for the Master Thesis or Capstone Project does not affect a student’s cumulative GPA 
for most of the University’s graduate programs (exceptions are specified in the descriptions of the 
respective programs), but the credits earned for the thesis or project will count towards the total 
number of credits needed for graduation. 
g. The supervisor may assign an Incomplete (I or IP) grade before the end of the semester in which 
the Master Thesis or Capstone Project is due if a student, who could reasonably be expected to 
complete and pass the thesis or project, is prevented from doing so during that semester for 
compelling reasons. 
h. An Incomplete cannot remain as a permanent grade and must be replaced by a valid final grade 
before the end of the following semester. 
i. The rules delineated in 6.11.g and 6.11.h presuppose that a student receives a permit to extend 
his/her studies by one semester. For this purpose, the student must appeal to the Dean of his/her 
School (using the Request for Extension Form). The Dean will forward the student’s request to 
the Office of Admissions and Student Records, who may grant the extension and who will 
subsequently record the Incomplete (I or IP) grade. 
j. Before formally requesting an extension by one semester, students must consult with the Office 
of Student Accounts to determine potential financial implications of this request. 
k. An extension by one semester will result in a delayed graduation date. 
l. Students who do not successfully pass their Master Thesis or Capstone Project will not be able 
to graduate. 
 
6.12 Latin Honors 
a. Latin honors are awarded to students to recognize their excellent performance during an entire 
undergraduate or graduate degree program. 
b. ADA University awards the following Latin honors: Summa Cum Laude (“With Highest Honor”), 
Magna Cum Laude (“With Great Honor”), Cum Laude (“With Honor”). 
c. Latin honors are awarded based on students’ cumulative GPA. To be eligible for Latin honors 
upon graduation, undergraduate and graduate students must achieve a certain minimum 
cumulative GPA. Latin honors are awarded for the following achievements:


===== PAGE 18 =====
18 | P a g e 
 
Latin Honors 
Cumulative GPA 
Summa Cum Laude 
3.90 or higher 
Magna Cum Laude 
3.75 – 3.89 
Cum Laude 
3.50 – 3.74 
 
d. Latin honors are recorded on the student’s transcript by the Office of Admissions and Student 
Records upon graduation. 
e. Graduates will receive a State Diploma with Honors (“fərqlənmə diplomu”) if their cumulative 
GPA is 3.80 or higher. This applies to both the undergraduate and graduate level and to all 
Bachelor and Master degree programs.
