=== PAGE 1 ===
STUDENT ENROLLMENT STATUS 
 
Degree Students 
 
Undergraduate students are considered full-time if enrolled for at least 30 credit hours in a Fall or 
Spring semester. 
 
Graduate students are considered full-time if enrolled for the full term load in the relevant 
semester/term as indicated in their program of study. Students must choose their part-time/full-time 
status before the end of add/drop period in their first year Fall or Spring term. Change of enrolment 
status beyond the add/drop period of the first year’s Spring term is not allowed. 
The maximum load for undergraduate and graduate level students in Summer term is considered 12 
credits or the maximum of three courses. 
To register for more credit hours (overload), students must receive permission from their academic unit. 
Undergraduate students must have completed at least 30 credit hours and have at least 3.00 
cumulative GPA to carry an overload. Overload at undergraduate level is considered as one additional 
course to the normal load in the relevant semester. Only students in the last year of their studies may 
take one course overload provided that they have good standing. 
Graduate students must have completed at least one semester and have at least 3.50 cumulative GPA 
to carry an overload. Overload in graduate level is considered as one additional course to the normal 
load in the relevant semester. Only students in the last year of their studies may take one course 
overload provided that they have good standing. 
Non-degree Students 
Non-degree enrollment status is designed for students who wish to take courses offered by ADA 
University but either do not plan to pursue a degree or are not yet enrolled at ADA University as full-time 
students. 
Non-degree students are allowed to register for no more than 30 credits in total and no more than 12 
credits in one semester. 
Non-degree enrollment status does not require a formal admission process. However, the University 
reserves the right to evaluate the applicant’s English language skills, academic background, work 
experience and community involvement to determine their ability to maintain the standards of academic 
and professional conduct expected at ADA. 
Students will apply for non-degree status by using the Non-degree student form available at ADA 
University website. 
• 
All non-degree students register on a space available basis. 
• 
Non-degree students are given grades for the courses taken at ADA University, reviewed 
according to ADA standards of good academic performance, and provided with academic 
records.

=== PAGE 2 ===
• 
In case of admission to ADA University degree programs, non-degree students may transfer 
earned credits according to ADA University credit transfer policy. Such credits can be used for 
degree if completed no more than 2 years before the admission. 
• 
Non-degree students are charged based on effective financial policies. 
Enrolment as a non-degree student does not guarantee acceptance into a degree program. 
Student Class Standing 
Class standing is determined by the total number of credits that students have earned, with adherence to 
the policies for repetition of courses, including graded courses at ADA University, or transferred courses. 
Credits that are not included in calculating class standing are credits not completed (N, I), or credits not 
accepted through transfer, examination, or experiential learning. 
The following is the range of hours for undergraduate class standing: 
First Year: 0-59 credit hours 
Second Year: 60-119 credit hours 
Third Year: 120-179 credit hours 
Fourth Year: 180-240 credit hours or more 
The following is the range of hours for graduate class standing: 
First Year: 0-41 credit hours 
Second Year: 42-90 credit hours and more