=== PAGE 1 ===
ADA University No. 2610 Rev.: 9 
Policy and Procedures Effective date: August 30, 2019

=== PAGE 2 ===
Subject: Student Academic Grievance Policy and Procedures 
 
During academic life, a student may come into disagreement with a faculty member or with the 
policies and actions of an academic unit as they affect the student’s progress toward completion of 
a course or degree. In cases of complaint or disagreement over academic matters not resolved by 
consultation among the parties, the University provides the student the right to initiate a 
grievance procedure, as described below. 
 
Students should have protection through orderly procedures against prejudiced or capricious 
academic evaluation. At the same time, they are responsible for maintaining standards of academic 
performance established for each course in which they are enrolled. Evaluation of students and the 
awarding of credit must be based on academic performance professionally judged and not on 
matters irrelevant to that performance, such as personality, physical disability, age, race, gender, 
sexual orientation, religion, national origin, degree of political activism or personal beliefs. 
 
Judgement regarding standards of evaluation for a student’s academic performance is a faculty 
responsibility and is not grievable. Normally, only questions relating to whether a faculty member 
complied with the stated requirements of the course and applied standards of evaluation fairly and 
equitably is potentially grievable. Cases involving complaints about grades will be considered only 
when there is clear evidence that casts significant doubt on the objectivity of the grading process or 
indicates that the faculty member failed to comply with the stated requirements of the course. 
 
A. Consultation and Informal Resolution 
 
1. Normally the student should discuss the matter directly with the faculty member. Both 
parties should make reasonable efforts to resolve the issue in an informal manner. If 
no direct resolution is reached, either party may request consultation and mediation by the 
unit head or academic administrator designated by the dean to help resolve potential 
grievances, as defined by the appropriate school in which the course or program is 
offered (referred to as the designated academic administrator). 
 
2. Is the student feels uncomfortable trying to resolve the matter directly with the faculty 
member, the student may go directly to the unit head or designated academic administrator. 
 
The unit head or designated academic administrator: 
 
a. counsels the student as to the steps involved in pursuing a grievance, with emphasis on 
informal resolution, and 
 
b. gives the student a copy of the grievance procedure section of the university’s academic 
regulations, plus any additional information specific to the teaching unit, if it is consistent 
with the university’s academic regulations, and notifies the faculty member immediately.

=== PAGE 3 ===
Student Academic Grievance Policy and Procedures 
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 

If the process of consultation and informal resolution fails, then formal grievance proceedings may 
begin. 
 
B. Formal Process 
 
1. If the student, after completing the above steps, remains unsatisfied, then he/she may file 
a formal grievance by submitting a written complaint to the head of the teaching unit or 
other academic administrator designated to supervise the grievance procedure. Jurisdiction 
over the grievance procedure resides in the teaching unit responsible for the course. The 
complaint, plus any supporting documents, shall supply full detail regarding the nature of 
the complaint and the remedy sought. The complaint shall indicate the dates on which 
attempts at informal resolution took place. To ensure that the school/college responsible for 
a student’s enrolment in the university is aware that a grievance has been filed, the 
teaching unit, which has jurisdiction over the grievance, will provide the dean of the 
student’s school with written notification of the filing. The faculty member against whom 
the grievance has been filed will also be notified. 
 
2. A grievance must be filed within three (3) working days of the occurrence or discovery of 
the alleged incident. 
 
3. Each teaching unit shall have a standing grievance committee, consisting of at least 
three faculty members, that can be convened to hear any complaint submitted. If a 
member of the grievance committee is a party to a complaint, the unit head shall appoint 
a substitute faculty member who is not involved in the case. 
 
4. Upon receipt of a complaint, the unit head or responsible administrator shall transmit 
the complaint to the grievance committee and simultaneously to the faculty member and 
shall assure that a hearing takes place within three (3) working days. All parties shall be 
informed in writing of the time and place of the hearing. Prior to the hearing, the committee 
shall obtain additional material it deems relevant. All parties shall receive copies of all 
relevant documents and each party has the right to respond in writing. The grievance 
committee shall review in detail the complaint, the remedy sought, and all supporting 
documentation. 
 
5. 
The student and the faculty member or other person(s) named in the grievance 
shall have the right to an oral hearing before the committee. The student may waive in 
writing her/his right to appear for the hearing. Otherwise, if the student fails to appear 
for a hearing, the committee must dismiss the case with prejudice, unless the student 
can demonstrate that he or she was detained for reasons beyond his or her control. If 
the faculty member or his/her responding party does not appear, the hearing may proceed 
in that person’s absence. The committee shall have the right to question the student 
filing the grievance and the faculty member or other person(s) named.

=== PAGE 4 ===
Student Academic Grievance Policy and Procedures 
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 

6. Parties to a grievance shall have an opportunity to state their cases, present evidence, 
designate witnesses, ask questions and present a closing statement. Additional witnesses 
may be called at the discretion of the committee. Either party may be accompanied by an 
advisor, but the advisor may not address the hearing directly. Because the purpose of the 
grievance process is to provide a fair review rather than a formal legal proceeding, 
participation of persons acting as legal counsel in the grievance process is not permitted. 
All hearings shall be closed to the public, unless both parties agree in writing to an open 
hearing. A record of the hearings and any decisions of the committee shall be maintained in 
accordance with applicable laws. 
 
7. In cases involving allegation of improper evaluation, the student must demonstrate clearly 
and convincingly that the evaluation was not objective or that the faculty member did not 
comply with the syllabus or other stated requirements of the course. If the only question is 
as to the validity of the judgment of the faculty member regarding the merit of the 
academic performance of the student, the case will be dismissed. In such a case, the 
committee will not read the papers or examinations of the student to judge whether they 
have been fairly graded. It is not the task of the committee to judge the academic standards 
used by faculty members in grading students. 
 
8. Committee deliberations shall take place in closed sessions. Committee decisions in 
support of the grievance must be made by majority vote of all members present. Three 
quarters of the members constitute a quorum. 
 
9. Within two (2) working days after the hearing is concluded, the committee shall render 
a decision in writing, together with the rationale for that decision, to all parties involved. If a 
majority of the committee finds the student’s allegation to be supported by clear and 
convincing evidence, the committee shall take appropriate action in accordance with the 
student’s interest which it feels would bring about substantial justice. In cases in which a 
grade is in dispute, the committee shall first consider other remedies such as: permitting 
the student’s registration in the course to be canceled, allowing a late withdrawal, arranging 
a way for the student to submit new work, retake an examination, or retake a course (under 
the direction of another professor). 
 
10. If a change in the student’s academic record or other action is decided upon, it is 
the responsibility of the head of the teaching unit in which the grievance was filed to 
implement the decision. The head of the teaching unit shall implement the decision within 
two (2) working days. For the record, a copy of the decision shall be forwarded to the 
dean. In cases where the grievance is filed in a school which is not the student’s home 
unit, there should also be written notification by the dean or the dean’s designee to the dean of 
the student’s school of the decision in the case.

=== PAGE 5 ===
Student Academic Grievance Policy and Procedures 
ADA University 
Policy and Procedures 

C. Records 
 
1. All records pertaining to a grievance case shall be maintained by the academic unit where 
the hearing or appeal takes place, normally the academic department or the office of the dean 
of the school. 
.