

===== PAGE 1 =====
1 

Student  Code  of  Conduct  
  
ADA  University  as  an  educational  institution  has  a  set  of  standards,  attributes  and  
purposes  essential  to  its  existence  and  well–functioning.  We  ensure  access  and  opportunity  for  
every  ADA  University  student  to  obtain  their  educational  objectives  within  a  safe,  healthy,  
inclusive,  intellectually  rich  educational  environment  throughout  their  time  at  the  University.  The  
Student  Code  of  Conduct  capitalizes  on  ADA  University’s  commitment  to  promote  intellectual  
development,  sense  of  ethical  citizenship,  and  personal  responsibility  of  its  students.   
  
Students  of  ADA  University  are  expected  to  act  in  accordance  with  the  following  outcome  images  
in  consideration  of  best  skills  and  knowledge  vested  in  them:   
  
• Highly  Intellectual  Solution  Providers   
• Close  Collaborators   
• Effective  Communicators   
• Ethical  Citizens   
  
ADA  University  expects  all  its  students  to  show  respect  to  one  another,  ADA  faculty,  
administration  and  staff.  The  current  Student  Code  of  Conduct  is  an  University’s  policy  of  non-­‐
academic  violations  and  applies  to  all  students,  student  organizations,  clubs  and  other  student  
bodies  of  the  University.  It  sets  forth  acts  constituting  both  acceptable  and  unacceptable  
behavior  and  conduct  for  ADA  University  students.  ADA  University  is  a  world-­‐class  educational  
entity  and  one  of  the  country’s  prominent  institutions  which  regularly  hosts  many  events,  official  
delegations,  distinguished  guests  and  country-­‐wide  conferences,  therefore,  students  of  ADA  
University  are  expected  to  adhere  to  the  norms  of  ethical  behavior  and  respect  each  other  in  
order  to  maintain  the  image  of  the  University.  
  
The  Current  Code  of  Conduct  implies  disciplinary  actions  for  all  alleged  on-­‐campus  misconduct.  
However,  the  University  may  consider  disciplinary  actions  for  off-­‐campus  offenses  that  are  
directly  affecting  the  ADA  community,  its  students,  officials  of  the  University,  breaches  of  the  
national  law,  and  if  student’s  misconduct  negatively  affects  pursuit  of  ADA’s  mission  and  its  
image.  The  University  will  take  any  breach  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  seriously  and  exercise  
disciplinary  measures  when  required.


===== PAGE 2 =====
2 
I. 
Expected  behavior  
 
Students  admitted  to  ADA  University  accept  the  responsibility  to  familiarize  themselves  with  and  
adhere  to  high  standards  of  honor  and  ethical  citizenship.  Any  proven  failure  to  meet  these  
obligations  will  justify  appropriate  disciplinary  procedures.   ADA  University  expects  its  students  
to:  
  
1.1. Behave  in  a  responsible  manner  and  communicate  in  a  way  that  does  not  offend  or  
discriminate  others;  
1.2. Help  fostering  mutual  respect  and  understanding  between  all  members  of  ADA  University  
community;  
1.3. Follow  all  formal  instructions,  policies  and  procedures  issued  by  the  University  authority  
including  Library,  Administrative,  IT  and  other  policies  accessible  to  all  students  through  
the  Office  of  Student  Services;  
1.4. Adhere  to  University’s  Safety  policies  by  observing  fire  alarms  and  related  evacuation  
procedures;  
1.5. Adhere  to  ADA  University’s  Acceptable  IT  Use  Policy  while  using  technological  property  of  
the  University  (computers,  printers,  smart  boards,  etc.);  
1.6. ADA  University  is  an  educational  entity  and  hosts  many  official  guests,  events  and  
delegations  on  a  regular  basis.  Therefore,  we  value  ADA  students  adhering  to  the  norms  
of  behavior  and  dress  code  to  protect  personal  and  University’s  reputation.  Students  are  
expected  to  give  preference  to  smart  casual,  business  and  semi-­‐business  attire;  
1.7. Respect  RSVP/sign-­‐up  policies  at  official  events  and  activities.  In  the  case  of  an  inability  to  
attend,  please,  inform  the  responsible  staff  member  in  advance;  
1.8. Switch  off  all  mobile  phones  and  other  electronic  devices  during  classes  and/or  put  on  
silent  mode  when  attending  major  campus  events;   
1.9. Arrive  on  time  for  scheduled  classes  and  academic  programs.  For  more  details,  please,  
read  course  syllabi  to  familiarize  yourself  with  attendance  policy  of  a  particular  faculty  
member;  
1.10. Unless  there  is  a  prior  written  permission  of  an  instructor  and  other  students,  no  video  
or  audio  recording  of  a  class  may  take  place.  This  does  not  apply  to  security  cameras  
throughout  the  campus;  
1.11. Only  bottled  drinks  may  be  taken  into  classrooms.  No  food  is  permitted  in  the  
classrooms;  
1.12. Assist  the  University  efforts  to  keep  all  premises  clean  and  neat;  
1.13. Carry  responsibility  for  their  personal  belongings  and  should  keep  valuable  items  with  
them  at  all  times.  ADA  University  does  not  carry  responsibility  for  items  left  unattended.  
Any  found  property  must  be  brought  to  Lost  and  Found  Desk  located  in  Building  B;  
1.14. Use  and  show  their  ADA  University  ID  card  when  entering/leaving  University  premises  
and  whenever  requested  by  the  Security  team;  
1.15. Request  a  permission  and  inform  the  Security  team  at  least  one  day  before  they  plan  to  
bring  in  visitor(s)  to  the  Campus.  All  visitors  and  guests  must  register  in  accordance  with  
the  Guest  Policy  and  General  Administrative  rules  of  the  University  in  advance  and


===== PAGE 3 =====
3 
obtain  a  visitor  pass  at  the  Welcome  Center  before  they  may  enter  the  Campus  (Student  
Guest  Request  Form  is  available  under  Policies  section  on  the  official  website  of  ADA  
University);  
1.16. Ensure  fair  access  to  computers,  classrooms,  common  spaces  and  dining  areas  to  all  
members  of  ADA  University  community.  Personal  belongings  should  not  be  used  to  
reserve  seats  for  longer  periods.  Any  unattended  items  will  be  immediately  removed  by  
the  Security  team  and  discarded;  
1.17. Comply  with  all  requests  from  professors/faculty  and  Administration  of  the  University  in  
a  timely  and  respectful  manner;  
1.18. Communicate  and  immediately  disclose  to  University  Administration  if  charged  with  
illegal  offenses  outside  of  ADA  University.  
 
II. 
Unacceptable  behavior  
  
Below  inappropriate  behavior  constitutes  a  serious  misconduct  that  is  likely  to  lead  to  
disciplinary  measures:  
2.1. 
Engagement  in  any  behavior  that  prevents  or  disrupts  teaching,  learning,  and  
administration  of  ADA  University  activities;  
2.2. 
Involvement  in  any  conduct  at  or  outside  of  the  University  which  may  discredit  the  
University  or  violate  laws  of  the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan;  
2.3. 
Littering  (throwing  cigarette  butts,  food  wrappers,  paper,  cans,  bottles,  etc.)  around  the  
campus  and  within  its  premises  is  strictly  prohibited.  No  food  is  allowed  inside  the  
classrooms  and  event  halls;  
2.4. 
Violence  against  any  other  person,  including  any  kind  of  insult,  bullying,  threatening  or  
physical  assault;  
2.5. 
Misconduct  that  threatens  others’  safety  and  well-­‐being;  
2.6. 
Exercising  lewd  or  abusive  language  and  behavior  towards  any  other  student,  
administrative  staff,  professors  of  the  University  within  and  outside  of  campus  including  
social  media  and  emails;  
2.7. 
Sexual  harassment,  assault  as  well  as  engagement  in  any  acts  of  public  display  of  
affection  at  the  University;  
2.8. 
Smoking  on  campus  is  allowed  only  at  the  designated  areas  and  strictly  prohibited  
inside  the  buildings  and  other  premises  of  ADA  University;  
2.9. 
Bringing,  consuming,  distributing  or  selling  alcoholic  beverages,  illegal  drugs,  guns  and  
other  controlled  substances  or  gunpowder  and  cold  weapons;  
2.10. Appearing  in  classes,  events  and  on  campus  under  the  affect  of  alcohol,  illegal  drugs  
and  other  controlled  substances;  
2.11. Entering  Health  Center  and  using  medicines  without  prior  approval  of  a  medical  staff;  
2.12. Theft,  inspection,  faking  and/or  duplicating  ideas  that  are  property  of  others  (including  
email  accounts)  or  of  the  University;  
2.13. Invasion  and  abuse  of  fellow  students’,  faculty,  staff  and  University  administration  email  
accounts  and  personal  social  media  accounts;


===== PAGE 4 =====
4 
2.14. Damaging  and  attempting  to  destroy  property  of  University,  including  learning  devices,  
furniture,  equipment,  other  devices  and  services;  
2.15. Invasion  and  abuse  of  University’s  or  its  partner  organizations’  confidential  materials,  
networks,  software,  cloud  software,  student/course  information  systems,  mailing  lists  
and  accounts;  
2.16. Unauthorized  use  of  another  person's  account  to  access  the  university  information  
systems  for  any  intention  and  reason  or  providing  access  to  their  own  account  to  
unauthorized  persons;  
2.17. Intentionally  using  University  property/premises  for  personal  goals  and  interests,  thus,  
limiting  equal  access  of  other  students  and  University  administration  to  common  
spaces;  
2.18. Gambling  within  ADA  University  premises  is  strictly  prohibited;   
2.19. Unauthorized  use  of  University’s  name,  logo,  copy  right  materials,  and/or  other  
attributes  associated  with  the  image  of  the  University.  Any  intention  to  use  University’s  
official  attributes  should  get  prior  authorization  through  the  Branding  &  
Communications  Office;  
2.20. Misuse  of  mailing  lists  for  personal  purposes,  promotion  and  mass  e-­‐mailing;   
2.21. Providing  and  using  false  information  or  falsified  identification  documents;   
2.22. Interfering  with  class  time,  teaching,  University  events  and  other  official  activities,  thus,  
preventing  to  run  activities  in  a  professional  and  timely  manner;  
2.23. Lending  University  ID  card  to  another  person  to  enter  campus  and  its  premises;   
2.24. Entering  and  attempting  to  enter  University  using  an  ID  card  of  another  student  or  
staff/faculty  member;  
2.25. Attempting  and  brining  any  unauthorized  guests  to  ADA  University  including  trespassing  
into  campus  with  a  friend/guest  in  the  car  without  prior  registration;  
2.26. Bringing  pets  and  animals  to  ADA  University  unless  holding  a  special  permission  to  an  
activity  that  involves  animals;  
2.27. Breaches  of  ADA  University’s  official  policies  and  regulations;  
2.28. Violation  of  any  disciplinary  sanction  imposed  as  a  result  of  infractions  of  the  Student  
Code  of  Conduct  rules.  

III. 
Investigation  Procedures  and  Sanctions  

A. 
Reporting  Violations  
 
1. Any  student,  staff  and  faculty  who  have  become  aware  of  possible  violations  of  the  ADA  
University  Student  Code  of  Conduct  by  any  student,  recognized  student  club,  student  
body  or  organization  is  expected  to  report  the  case  to  the  Manager,  Office  of  Student  
Services  with  the  utmost  urgency.  This  should  be  done  in  writing,  providing  as  many  
details  as  possible;


===== PAGE 5 =====
5 
2. Such  reports  to  the  Student  Services  are  normally  adequate  for  reporting  purposes.  If  
taking  reporting  actions,  any  student,  staff  or  faculty  member  should  take  appropriate  
account  of  the  circumstances  at  the  time;  
3. Manager,  Office  of  Student  Services  is  expected  to  maintain  the  utmost  confidentiality  
concerning  such  reports  and  shall  guarantee  the  anonymity  of  his/her  source  at  all  times.  
Manager  shall  submit  the  case  to  the  Office  of  Executive  Vice  Rector  for  hearing  and  
decision-­‐making  unless  otherwise  decided.  

B. 
Fair  Processing  &  Case  Resolutions  
 
1. Student  violations  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  (paragraph  2,  points  2.2,  2.4,  2.5,  2.6,  2.9,  
2.10,  2.12,  2.13,  2.15,  2.17,  2.26,  2.27)  that  may  result  in  suspension  and  dismissal  from  
the  University,  are  to  be  investigated  by  the  University  Conduct  Committee  at  
Disciplinary  Hearings  with  final  approval  of  sanctions  by  the  Rector;  
2. Student  violations  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  that  require  disciplinary  probation,  reprimand  
and  restitution  (paragraph  2,  points:  2.1,  2.3,  2.7,  2.8,  2.11,  2.14,  2.16,  2.18,  2.19,  2.20,  
2.21,  2.22,  2.23,  2.24,  2.25)  are  subject  to  investigation  and  processing  by  the  Office  of  
Student  Services  and  submission  of  proposed  sanctions  to  the  Executive  Vice-­‐  Rector  for  
final  approval;  
3. ADA  University  reserves  the  right  to  re-­‐consider  appropriate  sanction  and  investigation  
procedures  assigned  according  to  the  severity  of  the  misconduct  and  its  overall  effect  on  
the  University  community;  
4. ADA  University  may  withhold  student  diploma  or  terminate  official  recognition  of  a  
student  club/organization  until  the  case  is  being  investigated  and  final  decision  is  made;  
5. Students  shall  not  have  right  to  withdraw  or  request  a  transfer  from  the  University  until  
under  hearing  and  investigation  of  a  conduct  breach;  
6. Students  may  appeal  the  imposition  of  a  Committee  decision  for  misconduct  to  the   
Rector  only  based  on  substantially  valid  arguments  and  evidences.  Appeals  must  be  
made  in  writing  within  one  (1)  week  of  the  decision  of  the  Conduct  Committee.  If  the  
Executive  Vice  Rector  considers  the  appeal  to  be  grounded  it  is  presented  to  the  Rector’s  
consideration.  Decisions  confirmed  by  the  Rector  are  considered  final.  
 
C. 
  Conduct  Committee   
 
1. The  Conduct  Committee  is  in  charge  of  hearing  cases  of  alleged  violations  of  the  ADA  
University  Code  of  Conduct;  
2. The  Committee  shall  be  chaired  by  the  Executive  Vice  –  Rector  and  consist  of  Vice-­‐
Rector  for  Academic  Affairs,  Dean  of  the  School  (respective  to  the  student’s  study  
program);  Associate  Vice  Rector  for  Student  Services;  one  student  representative  
appointed  from  each  currently  serving  Undergraduate  and  Graduate  Student  
Governments;


===== PAGE 6 =====
6 
3. Chair  of  the  Conduct  Committee  ensures  smooth  and  fare  processing  of  hearing  and  
investigation  procedures  with  no  right  of  voting;  
4. Each  member  of  the  Conduct  Committee  is  required  to  pledge  to  keep  the  matter  under  
investigation  confidential;  
5. In  case  accused  student  fails  to  appear  at  the  hearing,  the  committee  may  make  a  
decision  based  on  the  available  information.  Should  there  exist  any  force  major  cause  for  
the  accused  student  preventing  to  attend  the  hearing,  a  new  date  may  be  set  for  the  
meeting  at  the  decision  of  the  Conduct  Committee  members.   
6. Executive  Vice  Rector  shall  appoint  a  Secretary  of  the  Conduct  Committee  hearing,  who  
shall  maintain  minutes  of  the  hearing.  The  minutes  of  the  hearing  shall  be  signed  by  the  
Secretary,  the  Executive  Vice  Rector  and  all  committee  members;  
7. Decisions  by  the  Conduct  Committee  on  the  case  of  violation  shall  be  communicated  to  
the  violator  nor  later  then  3  business  days  after  the  hearing  day  by  the  Executive  Vice  
Rector  or  any  other  official  member  of  the  Conduct  Committee  assigned  by  the  
Executive  Vice  Rector;  
8. Contacting  members  of  the  Conduct  Committee  for  the  purpose  of  influencing  their  
decision  is  prohibited  and  considered  in  itself  a  violation  of  the  University  Honor  Code  
and  the  Student  Code  of  Conduct.  

D. 
  Sanctions  
 
1. Reprimand:  is  a  formal  written  sanction  that  the  student’s  behavior  is  unacceptable  and  
its  continuation  will  result  in  more  serious  consequences;  
2. Disciplinary  probation:  a  student  status  assigned  for  a  certain  period  of  time  until  any  
repetitive  breaches  of  the  Code.  The  duration  of  disciplinary  probation  may  vary  
between  one  semester,  one  academic  year  up  until  the  termination  of  an  official  student  
status  at  the  University.  Students  on  disciplinary  probation  may  not  run  for  or  hold  
student  club/organization  chair  and  co-­‐chairmanships,  Student  Government  positions,  or  
mentor  roles;  
3. Suspension:  temporary  exclusion  from  the  classes,  activities,  events  and  premises  of  the  
University  within  a  certain  period  of  time  indicated  in  the  suspension  letter.  The  sanction  
is  to  be  permanently  recorded  on  the  student’s  academic  transcript;   
4. Expulsion:  a  permanent  termination  of  student  status  considering  expulsion  from  all  
University  classes,  events,  activities  and  premises.  The  sanction  is  to  be  permanently  
recorded  on  student’s  academic  transcript;  
5. Restitution:  a  reimbursement  of  a  damage  costs  resulted  in  breaches  of  the  Code  of  
Conduct  such  as  vandalism,  damaging  equipment,  furniture,  University  assets,  services,  
smoking,  violating  driving/parking  rules  and  littering  in  University  premises.
